 
 Page 1 of 20  
 
“UltraTech  Cement Limited  Q1-FY23 Earnings 
Conference Call”  
 
July 22, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. K.C.  JHANWAR – MANAGING DIRECTOR  
 MR. ATUL DAGA  – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CFO  


 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 2 of 20 
Moderator : Ladies and gentlemen , good day and welcome to the UltraTech  Cement Limited  Q1 Earnings 
Conference Call.  We must remind you that the discussion on today’s call may include certain 
forward -looking statements and must be therefore reviewed in conjunction with the risks that 
the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify , or revise 
any forward -looking  statement on the basis of any subsequent development, information , or 
events , or otherwise.  
As a reminder , all participant lines will be in the listen -only mode and  there will be an 
opportunity for you to ask questions a fter the presentation  concludes . Should you need assistance 
during the conference call, please signal an operator by pressing ‘*’ then ‘0’ on your touchtone 
phone. Please note that this conference is being recorded.  
I now hand the conference over to Mr. Atul Daga – Executive Director and CFO of the company. 
Thank you and over to you, Mr. Daga.  
Atul Daga : Thank you. Good evening , ladies and gentlemen  and welcome to this call of UltraTech  for our 
results for April -June quarter . 
 I will focus on three issues today. Demand, costs, and our growth plans.  Demand is good. Costs 
as you all know have not been very good and I do  not know how th ings will pan out in future. 
And growth prospects as we see are very good. We are happy to see the cement consumption in 
this current quarter, the reported quarter April, June quarter continuing the momentum after a 
strong performance in Q4, month after mo nth we saw improvement in demand in cement 
consumption. The good part about this cement cycle is that urban housing has picked up in the 
last few quarters.  
 The unsold housing inventories at its record low. With RERA  coming into effect , there has been 
a reduction in number of unorganized real estate players clearing the path for timebound 
completion of residential projects. The number of new project launches has also been on the rise, 
which will benefit cement of course.  Might be these are announcements  in real estate projects , 
after their announcement of real estate project there is still lead time before cement actually starts 
consumption. Cement consumption actually starts on each project site.  
 There is a negative impact on the purchasing power to inv est in housing, but I believe demand 
is resilient.  Large infrastructure projects like high -speed Mumbai -Ahmedabad train, coastal 
roads, Jewar Airport, Mumbai Airport to name some of them are leading to an overall growth in 
cement demand in the infrastructu re space. With a lot of ancillary projects getting seeded which 
generate employment, income generation, and of course, housing growth.  
 The government’s thrust on infrastructure growth is very much there and most welcome. Prices 
have been good. But like anyone else, we would also want them to be better given the 
inflationary trend in costs.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 3 of 20 
 Now let me talk about the not so good news, which is input costs. Costs have been rising 
continuously. Fuel and energy costs have been a matter of concern for al l players.  Production 
costs have risen about 7% this quarter. Effect of rising costs have been mitigated by 
improvement in procurement prices, improvement in efficiency and better planning.  
 Everyone knows that China has a significant influence on most of the commodity prices. Good 
news is that China’s domestic coal production at a high of 395 million metric ton in March before 
slipping to 362 million metric ton in April.  
 The average monthly production is trending 12% higher year on year. However, I unders tand 
that China has cut import tariffs for all types of coal to zero from May , ‘22 to March ‘23 as 
compared to the tariffs of 3% to 6% on imported co al depending on its quality.  
 This might still lead to a jump in exports to China, thereby leaving prices  inflated for some more 
time. Good news is that petcoke prices have started softening. We  have seen maybe about 10% 
reduction in the prices over the last month or so.  
 Hopefully coal will also follow suit. On an average, UltraTech  would require about 13 mi llion 
tons to 15 million tons of fuel per annum from FY24. With that kind of requirement, obviously 
we are planning our procurement strategies, inventory management plans, alternat ive fuel plans. 
WHR S efficiency improvement plans as best as we can to soften  the impact of rising costs.  
 I would want to clarify on the news flow around Dalla  Super, The JP unit which we had acquired 
in 2016. It was in stuck in NGT issues. It is in the last leg of forest clearances. You will recall 
we have held back Rs. 1,000 cr ores from the original consideration paid in June 16.  After settling 
all the costs pertaining to forest clearances, land acquisitions, the balance money will be released 
to the sellers at the time of taking over the asset.  
 I realize this has got delayed.  It is almost been five years, but trust me, we are clearing all the 
hurdles step by step. At this point in time, I do  not want to give you any timeline on final 
clearance because every time I have committed, I have not been able to deliver on those 
timeli nes. 
 These things are not in our control. There are lots of government or regulatory clearances that 
have to be taken, but I am hopeful that we should be able to clear everything and the asset should 
start production before the end of this calendar.  
 Ther e have been several theories during the rounds on our 22.6-million -ton expansion 
announced last month. I must tell you that it is a very well thought out plan ned step. 
 It is part of the earlier announced 50-million -ton growth plan. The news announcement of the 
22.6-million -ton expansion was perhaps delayed by a month.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 4 of 20 
We were contemplating to go ahead as part of our Q4 Results Board meeting, but we went slow 
on it since there was news about Holcim  assets trans action happening and we were also 
interested in looking at those assets.  
 Anyway, that is history now and we have got back in  our st ride. The delay c aused in announcing 
the plans will not be a bottleneck to meeting our overall timelines to commission all the  projects 
by 2025 -26. Work is in full swing on the ordering process. In fact, lots of orders have already 
been  placed . Main project items have already been ordered, advanced payments are being 
released. All these expansions are predicated on our fundamental phil osophy of profitable 
growth.  
 Expansions are not done just to add capacity, but to generate profits.  These investments are 
targeting an IRR in excess of 15%, as in when from ‘26 onwards when they start delivering 
production.  
 Thus,  helping the overall balance sheet also improve its return ratios. The internal accruals will 
be sufficient to meet all the Cap ex requirements.  At this juncture, my colleagues are reminding 
me of a unique and a creditable achievement of the company. The gr owth since inception have 
all been funded through internal accruals.  
 Why this expansion?  India will remain a strong market growth market for a long time to come 
and after completing this expansion, we will chat out our road map to rise from 153 million to ns 
to about 200-million -ton mark through organic and inorganic growth.  
 Do not ask me questions now, it  is work in progress and we  will come back to you with details 
in due course of time and tell you all about it. Where, when and how. That  is all from my side 
for this quarter results. Over to you for questions.  
Moderator:  Thank you very much. We will now begin the question -and-answer session. The first question 
is from the line of Pinakin Parekh from JP Morgan.  Please go ahead.  
Pinakin Parekh:  Three quick questions. My first is that you mentioned 153 million tons to 200  million tons. Now 
obviously that we do  not expect any details, but is this part of the 203 0 timeline or is this 
something which can be preponed even before 203 0? 
Atul Daga:  It can be preponed.  But whether it is 2027-28, 2028 -29 somewhere around those timelines. So , 
because after completing the current expansion of ’26, we will  see how the markets are shaping 
up. We start preparing for that plan for ‘28 now  and decide on the next steps somewhere around 
‘26. 
Pinakin Parekh:  Okay, because I  am just trying to put the numbers in context . 153 million tons to 200 million 
tons, is 47 million tons, right?  If you are thinking to add by ‘28 or ‘29, you would have to start , 
if it is a large part of it is organic, you would have to start, the process of land acquisition, mines, 
ordering and stuff like that ? 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 5 of 20 
Atul Daga:  So, land acquisition is a continuous process, Pinakin, w hich keeps on happening and that  is why 
we are able to cut short the pr oject execution time . When we announce our expansion plan, we 
would have completed our mines land acquisition , environment clearances already.  
Pinakin Parekh:  Sure. My second question sir, on the phase two expansion , slide 28, which gives the breakup 
betwe en integrated unit s, grinding units , and bulk terminals.  Now it mentions that bulk terminals 
is not additional capacity, but bulk terminals is a round 2  million tons of this 22.7  million tons . 
So how?  
Atul Daga:  No. If you sum  up all these 4.4 , 5.7, 5.2 and 7.3; that is 22.6 , but if you look at, let  us say South , 
sum up all the four-line items, it  is much more.  
Pinakin Parekh:  And can you give us lastly, a breakup of this 22.6 in terms of what is the clinker capacity of this?  
Atul Daga:  It is backed by full clinker.  That is all I can say right now.  
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia  from Kotak Securities . 
Please go ahead.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Sir, first question is on the cost.  A bit surprised to see only a 10% sequential increase in the co al 
cost this quarter, so gr eat year on the cost management . Given the inventory  and th e sourcing 
visibility we have, is it possible to give some guidance on the coming quarter  how do we see the 
energy costs moving and the mix of co al? 
Atul Daga:  I find it very difficult . It was, I think last quarter I gave a guidance of 10% increase and I  have 
barely managed to be there . It becomes very difficult to predict co st. Of course , the cost will get 
locked for the quarter  in the next few days.  But at this point , I would rather avoid doing 
forecasting and let me stick to the results.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay, but just for understanding, I mean what sort of inventory  and the lag is there in petcoke 
and international  coal. Is it possible?  
Atul Daga:  We would have 50 plus days of inventory at the close of the quarter , close of June . And sorry, 
what was the next part of your question ? 
Sumangal Nevatia:  Yes, 50 d ays, right?  And it will be same ? And it would be same for petcoke and thermal coal  or 
some  dip? 
Atul Daga:  Fuel mix is what I  am talking about.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay, understood.  
Atul Daga:  Because it  is all our plan ts are multi fuel so we can fire any thing . 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 6 of 20 
Sumangal Nevatia:  Second question which is more broadly on the industry supply dynamics.  So, I mean, we  are 
hearing th at new entrant and also many other players might be a bit aggressive on the growth 
given the balance sheet across is in good shape for the sector.  So, do we see a risk of increasing 
supply pressure  and low utilization?  
Atul Daga:  No, I do  not think so , Sumangal, because you will have to wait and watch for the next few 
quarters to see how the balance sheet shape up  given the cost pressures that are being faced  as 
also even if  new capacities are added , I believe that new demand will continue to surpass the 
new capacity addition.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  And then one just last thing . I mean, are there any assets will come up  anything on the  block for 
an organic opportunity?  
Atul Daga:  Of course, t here must be.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from A xis Capital . Please go 
ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  So just a few questions.  Yes, so like on the timeline s, just wanted to check like what is the 
phasing of this phase 2 like, will it be all at the end of the period mentioned or would it come 
during like spread out during this period?  
Atul Daga:  Which one , the phase 2 expansion ? It will be spread out . It may no t be one day. It will be spread 
out. It cannot be one quarter.  
Amit Murarka:  So, is there any break up as of now available or we  will have to wait for that then ? 
Atul Daga:  I think le t project work  start. Right now,  we are in the ordering state because main equipment , 
all main equipment have got ordered or will get ordered by the end of this month for all the plant 
locations.  So, in the next couple of quarters,  we should be start drawing timelines as well.  
Amit Murarka:  What will be the revised F Y23 CAPEX number now ? 
Atul Daga:  I am sorry?  
Amit Murarka:  The FY23 C APEX guidance, that must be revised now right after  the dip?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, i t will go up I  think plus minus Rs. 6,000 crores I would say.  
Amit Murarka:  And what would be the trade mix in the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Trade mix 67%.  Blended ratio is 70%.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Indrajit Agarwal from CLSA.  Please go ahead.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 7 of 20 
Indrajit Agarwal:  I have a couple of questions.  First on the expansion.  So, your CAPEX is at $75 per ton. We have 
seen some other players doing at a much higher number.  So, what do you think the replacement 
cost for industry now is?  I understand part of your land acquisition is done , part of it is 
brownfield.  So how do you see the replacement cost ?  
Atul Daga:  I would, if  you had to start from scratch today  and on the current prevailing prices , I would peg 
it anywhere between plus minus $ 110 to $120.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  And secondly, as we are already planning for 2030 , we will al so have some limestone mines 
expiring by that period. So how are we planning for that? Any thought process? Any strategy 
we are adopting?  
Atul Daga:  So, I have two mines expiring and they will be ROFR, obviously , with the existing players, so 
we will secur e those mines.  What is required for us is to get more mines in the locations that we 
are blueprinting now.  It is too early, but  I thought the importance of tabling our growth plans for 
2030  was so that you are not caught by surprise later on that it  was not ta lked about. So anyway , 
limestone is secured. There are two min es which expire which we  will have ROFR . 
2030 cost of operations for every player will go up with, you were asking about our preparedness , 
sorry , we talked about costs of a Greenfield and our preparedness, so we will be prepared as and 
when time comes.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  One last question . We generally see a bump up in demand in the pre -election year.  So, are you 
getting some kind of sense of that alr eady or too soon to tell?  
Atul Daga:  I have  reasons to believe that ther e are  20 months left  pre-election and there  is a huge amount of 
tailwinds for demand . 
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies.  Please go ahead.  
Prateek Kumar:  First question is on; you have mentioned about overall utilization of 83% and I believe your 
quarter -on-quarter grey realizations are up 7% . Can you split this region wise utilization s and 
realizations ? 
Atul Daga:  North and central would have gone up in double digits . West and  East might be 5%, 6%. South 
was flat.  
Prateek Kumar:  Our realizations would be like better than in dustry growth because couple of p eers of yours 
report ed like 4 %, 4.5% sequential growth this quarter ? 
Atul Daga:  My peers , okay. I do not know who my peers are, but  Yes, I think we should report good 
numbers.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 8 of 20 
Prateek Kumar:  And secondly, when we say, only expansions, we have a 15% IRR post FY26. What kind of unit 
EBITDA we are like assuming for these expansions corresponding to the  volume s we do?  
Atul Daga:  I think you can do your back calculation , Rs. 12,886 crores delivering a ROCE of 15% plus , 
would generate a Rs. 1,500 or there about . Rs. 1, 400 to Rs. 1,500 EBITDA . We are looking at 
that number for ‘26. 
Prateek Kumar:  And lastly , on realizations. While we had a very strong Q1, how would the exit realizations of 
June quarter versus average  for the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  June exit was slightly less , I think . When monsoon starts kicking in , realization s start dropping.  
Maybe 3 % to 5% lower were t he assumption in the  chart.  Anything else ? 
Prateek Kumar:  So, 3% to 5% versus average , that is what you  said?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Ash ish Jain from Macquarie.  Please go ahead.  
Ashish Jain:  Firstly , on expansion . So, I just want to understand like earlier when in December we had 
announced the expansion , we had spoken about 160 million tons by 2030 and now w e have  in a 
way raise that 200 million tons , that is like a major increase ? 
Atul Daga:  See, we do  not want to fall short of capacity and we are seeing , I've also given a demand outlook.  
So, if that demand outlook is there on a CAGR , we will not have capacity to service , if we do 
not expand.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, what headroom  we have on Brownfield or Greenfield, based upon limestone mines that we 
own? 
Atul Daga:  We will share that offline with you. 
Ashish Jain:  Lastly on cost means I understand you do  not want to give a forward number, but where would 
our cost be  let us say for June month or the first three weeks of July in terms of the energy cost 
versus what  we were consuming in June on a  permanent basis ? 
Atul Daga:  Daily i t is going up.  
Ashish Jain:  Okay, so let me put it like this.  
Atul Daga:  I think let us stick to a quarter instead of the month or the day or the week s. Yes, it is very 
volatile.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 9 of 20 
Ashish Jain:  And just one housekeeping question.  What is our net d ebt at the end of this quarter?  We have  
not shared it ? 
Atul Daga:  Sorry, I think there were too many slides. Net  debt has gone up slightly. We are at Rs. 5,561 
crores on a consolidated basis and India is Rs. 4,670 crores . 
Moderator:  Thank you.  Next question is from the line of Satyadeep Jain from Ambit Capital . Please go 
ahead.  
Satyadeep Jain:  A couple of questions on th e slide 28.  Some details on the expansion . In Sout h you  are adding 
GUs, especially, one of the GUs is actually far from Andhra Pradesh.  Are you looking to add 
clinker in Tamil Nadu in this one , or is the new G U is going to be s erved from Andhra Pradesh ? 
Atul Daga:  We will serve it from  APCW , the I U, which is And hra. We are also  participating in min es 
auctions in Tamil Nadu.  
Satyadeep Jain:  Because one of the GUs, Karur is actually will be 600 kilometers from A PCW? 
Atul Daga:  I know, I am fully aware and our plan is that we  will have the bulk terminal at Bangalore.  From 
there it can service , directly  also it can service.  
Satyadeep Jain:  And you  are also banking on possible auction  wins also to support  some of the  GUs? 
Atul Daga:  I am sorry, banking on ? 
Satyadeep Jain:  Possible auction  wins ? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, certainly.  
Satyadeep Jain:  Just a couple of questions on the entire C APEX. One is , somewhat surprising to see  A greenfield  
IU in Chhattisgarh , given you already have GU clinker plants within 10  to 15 kilometers of that 
upcoming plan t? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, also it helps me leverage on economies of scale big time.  And if you look at the next chart , 
which is page 29, the focus is now how w e will service the Northeast market. So , the extreme 
East plants , which is West Bengal plan ts will start catering to  Northeast  so that capacity is 
available from here to service the other markets.  
K. C. Jhanwar : And moreover, Atul, I may add actually.  The limestone is available only in Chhattisgarh in the 
East actually. So, people have no choice other than to put up the clinker facility in Chhattisgarh 
only. There is no limestone  in Bihar, Jharkhand, Bengal. Orissa, even very limited quantity. So 
Chhattisgarh is a natural choice for clinke rization units.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 10 of 20 
Atul Daga:  We have similar  concentration in Sa tna. We have three units there.  So, it also help s the 
economies of scale.  
Satyadeep Jain:  My question was why not do a brownfield  in Hirmi or the other?  
Atul Daga:  We are just completing a brownfield in Hirmi. T he clinker ization  got commissioned  I think last 
month and cement will get commissioned this month or next month perhaps.  
K. C. Jhanwar : Beyond a limit one should not also complicate one particular si te, so if they have other options , 
then why not to first u se those options rather than making a one particular lo cation v ulnerable 
from multiple po int of views . 
Satyadeep Jain:  Lastly, you have done in this round  of expansion  is Kotputli  but I guess the Nawalgarh  land 
acquisition is also complete.  Is that going to be part  of the  next level  of growth?  
Atul Daga:  Nawalgarh will form part of my next phase of growth.  There are some issues on mine s which 
we are sorting out.  
Satyadeep Jain:  On the mine s you said  lines or mines?  
Atul Daga:  On mines.  
Management:  Mines and land both.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Girish Choudhary  from Spark Capital.  Please 
go ahead.  
Girish Choudhary:  So, there was this recent  news that you  bought this Russian coal at $164 , so on this , what would 
be the landed cost and incrementally  how much more of this low-cost fuel can be replaced with  
other high cost ? 
Atul Daga:  So, $164 is what  the cost is . $168, if I remember it right.  And we keep one scouting for 
opportunities, so there  is nothing , in fact it was opportunistic transaction.  If something more 
surfaces, we  will pick it up.  
Girish Choudhary:  So as of now we have just bought this just one? 
Atul Daga:  157,0 00 tons. 
Girish Choudhary:  And secondly, if you can just guide us on for the phase 2 expansion, what would be the C APEX  
to be spent over ’23, ’24, ‘25? 
Atul Daga:  We have the phasing as yet ? I think give me next quarter because we a re just in the ordering 
phase right now, so hopefully we  will give clarity on cash flows next quarter.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 11 of 20 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from Edelweiss Securities.  
Please go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Couple of questions.  So first I would request some more details or color  about th e slide  8, 
wherein we are talking about electrification of cement kiln heating process.  So, I just wanted to 
understand, can this be a big oppo rtunity in the sense , can we really go in for instead of?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, it can be.  Technical discussions have just started.  It is not happening in the next couple of 
years.  It is a long-term plan, but the emphasis is that we are making all efforts possible on 
reducing emissions.  
Navin Sahadeo:  The next phase of, if at all, there is the next phase of evolution , this can be  one of it?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, this will be a game changer.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Second then I just wanted to  request your views on the overall pricing power in the sense that 
off late what we see is that despite the cost  rising, we have not really been able to like pass on 
prices commensurate to the way the cost is , also understands g overnment ’s focus on inflation.  
When diesel prices were reduced, there was also an industry reciprocation  of passing it  on to 
consumers . So, is it safe to say that, until such time the inflation stays firm , we should be more 
looking at cost because prices may not really go up ? Your views, please.  
Atul Daga:  So Navin , as of now, I think we would want to  balance the cost pressures with prices, and if you 
look at the current quarter performance, the reported quarters performance  also, it is been alright 
and I  have always maintained that the price increases will always be with  a lag effect.  They do  
not happen immediately.  
The efforts will be at the moment to cover cost increases, cost pressures with prices.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sir, just wanted on the costing part. Because the prices have been volatile, but off late we have 
also seen global prices seeing  fair amount of drop . So, it will be safe to comment that whatever 
cost of like fuel that we saw in the quarter , is that very much the peak or no , we can still see 
some decent increase coming into Q2 ? 
Atul Daga:  Keeping my fingers crossed that we have passed the hump, but as of now, at least in the next 
two or three quarters, we would still see price increases , cost pressures continue.  
Navin Sahadeo:  For tw o, three quarters , because as you said, in just a few weeks we would have in just a couple 
of days  may be our cost f or Q1 gets locked because of that inventory aspect . But it would still 
be on a rising trend for at least one to two quarters?  
Atul Daga:  It will be on a rising trend.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 12 of 20 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Kamlesh Bagmar from Prabhudas Lilladher 
Limited . Please go ahead.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  Sir, one question on the part of let  us say  phase 2  expansion.  So how much is the waste heat 
recovery capacity included in that?  
Atul Daga:  In the expansion ? 
Kamlesh Bagmar:  Yes. 
Atul Daga:  About 50 to 60 megawatts.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  And would that be sufficient to reach our target or 45%  realization ? 
Atul Daga:  Along with that we will be doing solar as well.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  And second ly, on part of ? 
Atul Daga:  The important aspect to note is that we are not putting up any thermal power.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  And Sir, on the part of your existing expansion , that is phase 1, so some like say in the Cuttack  
we have reduced like w e have revised the capacity . So that is coming up with like Rajpura and 
other unit s. So, what has been the reason behind that?  Because those capacity expansions have 
been going for lo ng in Cuttack , particularly in Cuttack?  
Atul Daga:  So, Cuttack, for example, the plan was two lines of 2  million tons , 2.2 million tons each. After 
looking at the market and opportunities available, I think the team decided that we should restrict 
ourselve s at the moment to 2.2 million tons only at Cuttack.  2.8 million tons, sorry.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  And lastly, the way phase 2  expansion is , like there is going  to be a  far higher level of blending 
ratios as compared to what we are at currently because like we are coming up with units in South 
where  branding image would be in Tamil Nadu and even in Chhattisgarh and UP. 
So, would it be like here , how much blending ratio or blended ratio can be assumed  or clinker 
conversion ratio in this phase 2  expansion?  
Atul Daga:  So currently we are already reaching 70% . On a consolidated basis, we might see a percentage 
improvement further.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Rajesh Kumar Ravi from HDFC S ecurities.  
Please go ahead.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  My question pertains to first on the phase 2 expansion , 23 million t ons. So, is it fair to assume 
that it would be backed with 15 odd million t ons clinker capacit ies? 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 13 of 20 
Atul Daga:  Yes, plus or minus.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Second , the blended fuel costs which you  have mentioned . On a per k ilo calc for Q1, where 
would that s tand? 
Atul Daga:  So, we have given the fuel costs at 2,200. 
Management:  2,200/ million  kcal. 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay, Rs. 2.2 sort of a number you  are talking , right?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  So why I  am asking this is that, given that  imported coal prices are currently hovering at north 
of Rs. 4, and even petcoke prices are Rs. 2.5 after falling off recently . So, is it fair to assume that 
we could see a sharp hardening in Q2 numbers  from Rs. 2.2 north of Rs. 3? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, so as I m entioned in a previous question, also costs for Q2 will go up. I do  not want to give 
any guidance on the number, but it will go up.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  No, because you already have 50 days of inventory, almost closer to that. So , for most of your 
Q2, your cost would be secured ? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, it is secured.  It will go up . The reported cost will go up.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay. And s ir, your net debt number on  a Q-on-Q basis would have gone up by Rs. 2,000 cr ores?  
Atul Daga:  No. Okay, we are very close . And Rs. 1,600 crores have  gone up.  On a consolidated basis but 
India has gone up by Rs. 900 crores . 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  And last question, is the overseas operations if I back calculate the India operations and 
consolidated , the n umbers  look quite depressed.  What would that be on account of?  
Atul Daga:  So, what has happened is we have operations in Sri Lanka where we have to take a rupee 
depreciation , the currency depreciation impact of about Rs. 38 crores. Other than that , sorry , you 
were asking about an operating cost, right?  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  At the EBITDA level  the margin would be not more than Rs. 150 per t ons for the overseas 
operations ? 
Atul Daga:  Overall, because of Sri Lanka is what we have suffered  on the P&L . 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay, Rs. 38 odd crores for the quarter itself ? 
Atul Daga:  Rs. 38 crores have been provided for currency.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 14 of 20 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay. I n the expenses only , other expens es? 
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec C apital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, wanted to understand the price growth.  I think it  is pretty  stunning when one just  compares 
it with the other listed companies which have reported so far.  Anything specific that you would 
like to highlight?  I think, I would love  to hear your thoughts  here for the first question?  
Atul Daga:  About what ? Numbers speak ? 
Ritesh Shah:  Yes, but sir, how basically was it a more premium  sales, I think that number is something which 
has been quantified is a direct dispatches to leaders or anything different on discounting or 
anything at all?  
Atul Daga:  Ritesh, you look at the number.  Let us do the business.  
Ritesh Shah:  That is there . 
Atul Daga:  You enjoy the numbers , why are you counting the goodly?  
Ritesh Shah:  Has there been any shift in the sales m ix basically region wise w here in pricing was more 
conducive to us, which could have helped us ? 
Atul Daga:  I think there was a question which  was asked earlier.  North and Central we were able to get 
better price improvement as compared to the other markets.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, second question is , we have announced incremental phase 2 of growth C APEX , 22 million 
tons. What sort of growth optionality do we have after this?  
Atul Daga:  I think you  joined in slightly late.  I talked about the next phase  of growth will take us to 200  
million tons. Now, somebody had asked a question whether we  will do 40 million tons in two 
years . It is too early  to talk about phasing of that, but that is the game plan that we have in place 
now going to 2030.  
Ritesh Shah:  And s ir, last question . Given we have out laid ou r plans on the capacity side.  We have also 
indicated C APEX intensity, which is great.  Anything which can actually improve our 
positioning on the cost curve as we continue to expand ? Anything from a logistic side, anything 
that one can look at , say DFC , any other variables?  
Atul Daga:  I think as far as DFC is concerned, UltraTech  is very well positioned to take advantage. Today 
we run more than 260 -odd r ailheads in the country . I think after  Coal India I  think we might be 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 15 of 20 
having the highest number of in the private sector  railway sidings . So, we will definitely get the 
benefit of  lower cos t in terms of movement through railway corridor . Economies of scale will 
always be a plus point for a large operation like ours.  Whether economies of buying , economies 
of logistics . 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Pulkit Patni f rom Goldman Sachs.  Please go 
ahead.  
Pulkit Patni:  Just one question . What I derive d looking at your realization is that clearly the gap between trade 
and non -trade is much lesser in the particular quarter ? 
Atul Daga:  That is absolutely right.  
Pulkit Patni:  Anything structural there for us to ? 
Atul Daga:  Structural efforts.  
Pulkit Patni:  Any sense  on what that gap would be right now ? 
Atul Daga:  15-20 bucks.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Bhavin Ch heda from Enam Holdings.  Please 
go ahead.  
Bhavin Chheda:  Just a one question.  If you can share the coal mix in the quarter, how much was petcoke , linkage  
coal, which normally share in the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  52% is petcoke is what my colleagues are telling me and  37% is imported co al, and 5% is 
domestic co al. Balance is others.  
Bhavin Chheda:  Comparing to quarter 4, the linkage coal was close to 17 %, 8%, so it  is gone down further ? 
Atul Daga:  Indigenous coal is more or less at the same level.  
Bhavin Chheda:  And sir, are you getting any imported coal under long term contracts?  Because it looks like you  
are saving a lot on power and fuel as compared to some peers ? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, so I was emphatic about our strategies on fuel management given the quantum of fuel that 
we consume.  So, there are lots  of efforts which  we go which are put in , with th at long term 
contracts.  Whether it  is sources  of supplies mix.  Everything goes on.  
Bhavin Chheda:  And what would be the lead distance in the quarter , average for the company ? 
Atul Daga:  About 429 kilometers . 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 16 of 20 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Shravan Shah from Dola t Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Shravan Shah:  Most of the questions have been answered . A couple of things, sir. In terms of the CAPEX , the 
already ongoing 19.9 MTPA. So , when we announced the CAPEX was around Rs. 6,500 crore s. 
So, has that number increase d or? 
Atul Daga:  No. It might increase by Rs. 100 crore s here or there, but that  is all.  
Shravan Shah:  So, broadly you mentioned Rs. 6,000 crore s CAPEX for this year FY23, so FY24, the number 
should be Rs. 7,000 crores, Rs. 8,000 crores  odd? 
Atul Daga:  I think the ability to spend also is capability exists, but ability to spend will also be there. You 
know on the ground execution. So , Rs. 6.000 crores plus minus should be an annual spend.  
Shravan Shah:  And this entire 22.6 when we say 25 but I think in your comments  you mentioned maybe by 
FY26? 
Atul Daga:  FY25-26 because, as we progress, we will have more clarity on the exact dates.  
Shravan Shah:  And the other is the already a cl inker that we announced in 19.9 MTP expansion.  So we have 
given the grinding expansion timeline but clinker if you can help me out , out of that 11.4 M TPA 
that we announced previously ? 
Atul Daga:  The upper limit for example, Hirmi, if you look at , the clinker has already got commissioned.  
Now there is P ali, which is clinker , which is in Q3 , Dhar is in Q3, others are all grinding units. 
It is there in the chart, page 23. Q3  ‘23 is what the other  clinkerization c ommissioning  is. 
Shravan Shah:  And just a last. You mentioned that the pricing has gone down 3 % to 5% in June versus t he 
average for this quarter . Has it also further reduced the realization in the first 20 days of July?  
Atul Daga:  July i s always , the way the monsoons have been progressing in the  country , I think  July generally 
the prices soften a bit.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Sanjay Gandhi from Ratna bali. Please go ahead.  
Sanjay Gandhi:  Just one  or two questions . Like you mentioned, like the trade down trade cap is currently Rs. 15, 
Rs. 20 per ba g. So, what was th e thing like previously before of this like improvement?  
Atul Daga:  It was higher than Rs. 20. 
Sanjay Gandhi:  Just a long-term question . Sir, like in China the per capita consumption is 1 ,500 K G per person 
and in India we are heading to 200 KG ? 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 17 of 20 
Atul Daga:  Now may be c loser to 300 KG n ow. It is improved but way behind  China.  But if you exclude 
China , but China is high on everything . If you exclude China , then the average per capita of the 
globe will be 500 KG to 600 K G per capita.  
Sanjay Gandhi:  Do y ou feel like in next 10 years ’ time we will be able to like touch  that? 
Atul Daga:  It is improving, so when five years ago it was closer to 200. Now it  is reaching about 200, 3 00, 
so it is improving.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Akshata Telisara from SBI General Insurance.  
Please go ahead.  
Akshata Telisara:  So, over the last decade we did see a lot of capacities com ing in anticipation of demand.  But the 
demand did not materialize enough and t herefore we kind of enter ed a surplus environment . 
Even today a lot of capacities have been announced by you and your peers.  So, my question is , 
how do you see the large players like you and others interact with the other large players in 
regions  like north and central  or how do you see the small players interact with other small 
players in say South?  Or how do you see th e large and the small talk to each other in regions 
like East?  So, if you could  just elaborate a little on that ? Thank you.  
Atul Daga:  first and foremost,  we do  not have to interact with other players, so that  is the shortest answer I 
can give you . Unless you have something else to ask, or I did  not understand your question ? 
Akshata Telisara:  No, I was just wanting to understand how would the pricing play within the player s, given that 
there is a demand supply  mismatch here?  
Atul Daga:  Every market, its prices are clearly driven by demand supply and if you are tracking the cement 
market for a longer history, the moment any market crosses 85% capacity utilization, there  is a 
very strong  uptick in prices.  So that is how the markets behave.  
Aksha ta Telisara:  But on an aggregate level, we are around 70, right so?  
Atul Daga:  I am sorry what ? 
Akshata Telisara:  On an aggregate level, we are at around 70 ? 
Atul Daga:  The capacity utilization at and all the country level 70% , yes . But this is again to caution you , 
one should never look at All India full  year capacity utilization . You will never reach a high 
number because cement is seasonal.  July, September , and the peak  summer months do pull down 
the cement  consumption , so you will never have All India number to go by.  
You have to test waters for January , March . January , March  we operated the last year we 
operated  at 93% capacity utilization we operated . In fact , for the month of March we operated 
at close to 100% and I would want you to  imagine, 55 physical plant locations operating at 100% 

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 18 of 20 
capacity utilization. Railway sidings operating  100%. No strikes happening anywhere. Railway 
wagons available. Everything moving smoothly.  If that happens, then you have 100% capacity 
utilization.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  So, actually on slide 30 you have mentioned about improving the blending ratio, which actually 
is quite an interesting comment  given that you have one of the lower blending ratios actually 
among the players . So how will that be achieved?  Will it also mean like you will focus more on 
the trade  markets and hence maybe it  is the lower OPC or  how do you think about  that? 
Atul Daga:  See OPC will if i nfrastructure is going up , OPC consumption will go up.  Large infra projects 
tend to consume OPC and that is where UltraTech  stands out in supporting the infra growth  
unlike any other player in the country.  What we are also engaging in is advocacy with the 
infrastructure players to do blending and reduce OPC consumption.  That is what will help us 
improve the overall blending ratio.  Besides, there are markets , now Eastern markets are 
composite cement markets which they hi gher the sales mix in those markets or southern markets 
will improve the overall blending ratio.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay, and is there any number you have in mind like going up to 1.4 , 1. 5? 
Atul Daga:  We are already at  1.4 today.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay Yes, you used to be  slightly lower than that so  basically?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. We were at 1.34 in maybe a year or two years ago.  But we are already at 1.4 and obviously 
the ambition will be to improve it further.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies.  Please go ahead.  
Prateek Kumar:  Sir, there  is some question bookkeeping question on slide 13 of your presentation.  There is a line 
item under others which says the Rs. 291 c rores of revenues and corresponding that there  is no 
volumes. We used to give this export an d other s volumes in this head.  So firstly, why is there is 
no volumes here? Also , this Rs. 291 c rores is corresponding to what exactly?  
Management : So that others is actually an inter-company sell, which we have removed from this  quarter.  If 
you add up all these numbers, which is cement , RMC , white and grey c ement , it will add to the 
consolidated number.  It was only an intercompany sale, so.  
Atul Daga:  Volume has not been shown on  that account . 
Management:  And Rs. 291 crores revenue , which is on  other business , UBS, BPD and others.  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 19 of 20 
Atul Daga:  Yes, so UBS sales or our building construction chemical sales  or other incomes or other 
miscellaneous sales that might be there . 
Prateek Kumar:  So last quarter that num ber was ? 
Atul Daga:  We are trying to improve the disclosures simplify your life what perhaps you might want is 
export volumes.  Export volumes were dismal.  Our exports are largely to Sri Lanka, and Sri 
Lanka was virtually  no exports . Just 1 lakh tons of export  to Sri Lanka.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Indr ajit Agarwal from CLSA.  Please go ahead.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Hi sir, one follow -up bookkeeping question . Any ballpark number on how much C APEX  is 
remaining in phase 1 for FY23?  
Atul Daga:  We should complete everything this year and maybe Rs. 2,000 crores, Rs. 3,000 crores of 
spending might be pending. Might be pending , if I am wrong then Ankit will revert to you , 
Indrajit.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sure, thank  you so much . 
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of R itesh Shah  from Invest ec Capital . Please go 
ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  Two questions . First is , Grasim  has made an announcement of Rs. 2,000 crores on the B2B side 
online portal . We have a solid UBS franchise.  Any color if  both the variables can actually marry 
into each other for both the entities to realize the ga ins? 
Atul Daga:  They should be. I think they will evaluate how to synergize because that  is B2B e-com. That  is 
what I believe . Our UBS is hardcore it  is B2C.  I do not have too much more insights on what 
Grasim is doing.  
Ritesh Shah:  Any growth numbers or target numbers on U BS stores , say three years out, any target revenues 
over there ? 
Atul Daga:  We are today reaching about 3 ,000 odd stores . UBS  from cement perspective because it  is an 
important channel partner for us. I would think 10% of revenue quantity.  Today it is 15%. Just 
today, about 15% of our cement volumes  are through UBS outlet so we will continue t o grow 
the UBS channel.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sure. And sir, on RMC, there are few players who are going super aggressive in the m arket . Any 
plans over here to up the game?  
Atul Daga:  We are expanding pretty rapidly.  Today we have rea ched, you know, maybe a year ago or six 
quarters ago we were static around 100 plants.  Today we have reached  almost 171 plants , YoY  

 UltraTech  Cement Limited  
July 22 , 202 2 
 
 Page 20 of 20 
35 plant growth has happened . So it is, if I look at the  revenue numbers on that same char t, 77% 
growth in revenue.  And mind you, we generate increm ental EBITDA over the cement EBITDA . 
So, it is not just channel, but it generates its own P&L.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, last question.  I am not sure should I ask or no t but I still  I will go ahead with it.  Sir, at what 
point do you think that  adding capacity beyond a particular point could actually be detrimental 
to us ? What is the variable that you will look at and say I do not  want to do any incremental ? 
Atul Daga:  In the light way, if I look right , I see my plan t, and if I look left , I see my plant , then that is when 
we will stop adding capacity.  But to be honest , this question will get.  It is a brilliant , Ritesh. The 
answer to this would be defined by lead distance. How much lead I am generating?  
Maybe today I  am here at 439 kilometers.  Maybe avera ge of 300 kilometres might be a good 
lead to operate on . To that extent we  will keep on expanding because there will be opportunity 
to expand. Let me put it this way.  There will be opportunity to expand, but there  is no, this is off 
the cuff answer.  There  is no scientific work that I  have done in giving this answer.  
Ritesh Shah:  Right . If I just try to push you a little bit . We have given numbers, say 2025  probably something 
by 2030. Any specific numbers and market share that we would be looking at gi ven you would 
have certain number?  
Atul Daga:  We cannot define market share because we do  not get any market data.  We do not know how 
the capacity will be there, how the growth will be there , so it is difficult.  You ask me a difficult 
question , I will give you a difficult answer.  
Moderator:  Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the last question.  On behalf of UltraTech  Cement , 
that concludes this conference . Thank you for joining us and you may now disconnect your lines.  

 
Page 1 of 17 
  
            
 
“Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
Q1 FY '2 4 Earnings Conference Call ” 
July 21 , 202 3 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. ATUL DAGA  – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF 
FINANCIAL OFFICER – ULTRA TECH  CEMENT LIMITED  
 MR. K.C. JHANWAR – MANAGING  DIRECTOR– 
ULTRA TECH  CEMENT LIMITED  
 


     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 2 of 17 
 
Moderator:  Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to the UltraTech Cement Limited Q1 FY'24 
Earnings Conference Call. We must remind you that the discussion on today's call may include 
certain  forward -looking statements and must, therefore, be viewed in conjunction with the risks 
that the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify or 
revise any forward -looking statement on the basis of any subsequent developm ent, information 
or events or otherwise.  
As a reminder, all participant lines will be in the listen -only mode, and there will be an 
opportunity for you to ask questions after the presentation concludes. Should you need assistance 
during the conference call , please signal an operator by pressing star then zero on your touchtone 
phone.  Please note that this conference is being recorded. I now hand the conference over to Mr. 
Atul Daga, Executive Director and CFO of the company. Thank you, and over to you, Mr. Daga.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you so much. Good evening, everyone, and welcome to the Q1 FY'24 earnings call for 
UltraTech. This is the third year in the running, seeing a high consumption of cement. Going by 
the positive movement seen in the first quarter, we ar e excited to see a double -digit growth in 
volumes this year as well.  
You are aware of the erratic heavy monsoons that we have seen earlier on during the last couple 
of months, that has hit almost all the regions in the country, resulting in disruption in d ispatches 
early on. But the good part is that the fear of El Nino  seems to be subsiding. Things are going 
well for our economy. FDI is gaining momentum; inflation seems to be under control; fuel costs 
for cement are on the decline; interest rate hikes have taken a pause; infrastructure in India is 
improving rapidly.  
What I can quote -- as one of my friends said, Gods up there seem to be Indian. I want to share 
some more data points on road infra in particular. The government has given a directive to spend 
almost 80% of the budgeted allocation of INR2.7 lakh cro res by December '23. Almost INR 1 
lakh crores has been spent by mid -June Balance spending of INR1.2 lakh crores as was advised 
by the ministry or will be completed on schedule.  
They want to ac hieve a speed of 40 kilometers per day of road construction this year. We'll most 
likely reach the targeted kilometer per day going by the speed at which the execution is taking 
place. This quarter was the highest road execution progress. Though new orders  were less, but 
we don't get bogged down by slowing down of orders, which is to my mind, very temporary.  
But it's not just a roads, it is the good infrastructure has a captivating effect on overall economic 
activity in the country and some index who participate in the growth story. Let's talk about our 
own work. We have commissioned 4.3 million tonnes of capacity till now beyond and going 
beyond June as well. And our cash flow seems in good shape.  
These new capacities will further strengthen our presence in the North , East and Western 
markets. As for our cash flows, after a cash spend of INR1,796 crores o n our ongoing capital in 
this quarter, we have further reduced our net debt by INR233 crores, which I think is a fabulous 

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
achievement. We have completed the first phase of our expansion plan, which was announced 
in December '20, taking our all India capaci ty to 131.25 million tonnes.  
During the course of various expansion programs, we have identified some debottlenecking 
opportunities, which will be completed during this year, giving us an incremental capacity of 4 
million tonnes,  that has spread in 4 or 5 locations as we complete these, we will keep on 
announcing that.  
We expect as I mentioned, we should be able to complete all these programs within this financial 
year, taking our overall capacity from 131.25 million tonnes to 135.25 milli on tonnes in India. 
Another very important point to note is the improvement we have made in our clinker conversion 
factor , specifically included a chart in our presentation, an improvement of 0.04 will generate 
an additional volume on an annual basis  of 3 million tonnes.  
Let me now talk about our sustainability agenda, and we take it very seriously. We are fast -
tracking our green energy program. For that, we are participating in a hybrid solar wind project 
of 648 megawatts taking our total renewable energy basket to 1.25 g igawatt when the program 
is completed. And also, we intend to increase the footprint of our WHRS to reach 425 megawatt 
from  232 megawatts that we ended Q1 FY'24 with.  
These programs will be completed by the end of fiscal '26. , and whe n all these projects are 
completed I'm happy to tell you that we have more than 60% of energy as green energy on our 
expanded base. WHRS accounting for around 25% and renewable energy, which is solar and 
wind accounting for more than 35%.  
Depending upon the prevailing cost structures at that point in time, it will still be a sustainable 
addition to our bottom line. Two points which I want to bring to your notice more from an 
academic interest point of view. F irstly, on fuel prices.  Today, p et coke is trading around 
USD 115 per ton after  USD 100 level for a very few days.  
However, most of the time, the spot prices are for ship loading, which is –average  2 months later 
and give a 45 - to 60 -day shipping time, 10 -odd days of inland movement and existing inventories 
of anywhere between 45 to 60 days, it gets into consumption, maybe around 5 or 6 months later 
from the date you are talking about the  booking  the contract.  
Second important point to keep in mind is the moisture loss. For us, the landed cost is almost 
10% higher on account of moisture losses, which is what we consume and what we report. Last 
quarter, on a net basis, our cost was USD 194 per metri c ton, which has reduced to USD 178 per 
metric ton for this quarter.  
Depending on the availability of pet coke, we keep on optimizing the fuel mix  the quarter  this 
quarter, pet coke was about 42%. Another point for your academic interest,  this is about lead 
distance. At UltraTech, you would have heard our lead distance being more than 400 kilometers. 
To be precise, last quarter, we were at 410 kilometers.  But an important point to note is that this 

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 4 of 17 
 
lead distance includes lead distance fo r movement of clinker  from the integrated plant to the 
grinding unit. More important to keep in mind is our ability to serve our customers. With the 
current network of our grinding units, bulk terminals across the country, more than 120,000 
channel partne rs and a dense network of warehouses that we have, our lead distance from the 
point when cement is available to service the customer is only 270 kilometers.  
This has come down from 281 kilometers last quarter. And I think this is a real lead distance for 
our customers. So we are practically able to serve any customer around the country within 300 
kilometers of our servicing point . And that's why I say we continue to lead by a mile. Thank 
you, ladies and gentlemen, and over to you for questions.  
Moderator:  Thank you very much.  Your first question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital.  
Please go ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  The first question is around the new tax regime now. So have you moved to the new tax regime 
for all entities like including Nathdwa ra? 
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Amit Murarka:  Okay. And on the fuel cost, like when the consumption cost was USD 178 in Q1 and spot you 
said USD 115. So by Q3, we should expect like assuming 1 15 continues, we should assume 115 
to flow through by Q3, right?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. So 115, if it's a price, you mark it up for moisture losses. So consumption will be USD 125 
to USD 130.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Understood. And what would it mean directionally for your  power and  fuel cost , let's say, 
either in rupees Kcal terms or as a percentage?  
Atul Daga:  2.34 was our Kcal  cost this quarter.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. And assuming like pet coke of 115, like should it go down to like 1.7, 1.8, like 115 would 
be I guess 1.8?  
Atul Daga:  It is downw ard. I haven't done the math because the mix will also have a pla y here.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  I would like to add, here,. See the availability of  pet cok e is also not too high because 115 to 125 
happened within a weeks -- 10 days time. And as you all know, the availability of the pet coke 
is very limited, actually, and it's coming  maybe a part of the pet coke is coming from U.S. So 
again, there is a cycle  of about 60 to 65  days. So it all depends on how much , what kind of 
prices set out going forward.  
Atul Daga:  Amit, to add further, it's a very dynamic situation. I had seen one data point and which I can 
share with everybody. The heat wave, which is going on in China and more parts of the Europe, 
the coal consumption is going up. Last year, China generated the highest ever power from its 

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 5 of 17 
 
coal sources, and they are still consuming only captive coal. Our philosophy , not philosophy, 
our hypothesis is that as and when China opens up and they will start impor ting sometime soon, 
costs may not remain at these levels.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Understood. Sure. And early on this blending ratio of 1.4x that you achieved, can we now 
expect like 1.5x, maybe a year, 1.5 years...  
Atul Daga:  It will improve while not able to quantify, but it will improve further.  
Amit Murarka:  And also Infra is taking now blended cement?  
Atul Daga:  Very miniscule.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Understood. And just the last one from me. Like you've already achieved 90% capacity 
utilization in Q1. Like as we gradually get into Q4, this is 3 quarters down the line, but 
commissioning, I believe mostly are happening later in '25 and on. So coul d that  be an  issue 
where some capacity tightness or unavailability of some capacity to maintain ? 
Atul Daga:  No, I think  as I also mentioned, there will be surplus cement available from our increase in 
clinker conversion ratio, the debottlenecking, which will give me additional 4 million tonnes of 
capacity, and we will try and bring in some more capacity at a much fast er pace as and when we 
are ready, we will let you guys know. But I don't think we will fall short of capacity. We will 
not lose a single customer.  
Moderator:  We have the next question from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from Kotak Securities.  
Sumangal Nevati a: The first question is, overall, I mean, a very strong growth in this quarter. If you could just share 
what is the sense what would have been the market growth and I believe it looks like we have 
gained market share. So in case you can add some regional color as to which region we have 
outperformed quite substantially versus peers or the industry?  
Atul Daga:  I think we would have done pretty well across the country because again, 89%, 90% capacity 
utilization, which means average 85% -plus utilization in m ost markets, the only market like 
South where we are ,  our base is small. So we would have a lesser impact as compared to that 
practically everywhere. We would have outperformed by a mile.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Sir, what would be the industry growth as  far as?  
Atul Daga:  Too early to comment. I would wait for some more results. But certainly, like last quarter, there 
would be a wide gap between us and the industry.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Given a Pan -India presence, 20% growth, in some region, we would have grown 15%, 
18%, some 23%, 24%. So some regional color you can share?  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 6 of 17 
 
Atul Daga:  I just told you, you benchmark  me with my capacity utilization everywhere. We are more than 
85% capacity utilization. The bigger point is that the entire co untry ,  all regions in the country, 
East, West, North  South , Central, are seeing huge demand.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Got it. Sir, second question on the prices, I mean, do we expect the cost saving to drive 
margins? Or  I mean, we are entering seasonally weak period. So should we  how should we see 
margins shaping up over the next 1, 2 quarters, given some pressure on prices that we should 
see? 
Atul Daga:  We have seen marginal or insignificant  not to rejoice or party,  but we have seen price increases 
in North and West. Some increases in the month of July South and East are still not showing 
traction in prices. But from our perspective, when we don't have capacity available, our efforts 
would be to service our customers  who are paying the maximum price.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Got it. If I can just ask one more question. Overall growth for the next 5 -odd years, if you look 
at last 10 years, inorganic has been a substantial part of our growth. But now we don't see our  
participati on in few ongoing acquisition opportunities. So is it that inorganic is largely behind 
us as far as growth is concerned in future next 3, 5 years should be largely dominated by organic. 
Is that the right way to think?  
Atul Daga:  No, one or two plac es which you don't see our name that doesn't mean that you can say, 
Ultra Tech  is not interested. We evaluate opportunities. And of course, given the network that 
we have, by network I mean our physical plant network. Unless an opportunity is value -adding, 
value -adding from both growth and profitability, we will not deploy capital in those assets. And 
yes, we will keep growing. So if not inorganic, organic will lead the way.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Got it. Sir, in terms of market share, there is no constraint. I mean, we can still grow 
inorganically.  
Atul Daga:  Yes. Barring, I would imagine West not West, sorry, East where because the inorganic target 
sizes will be large, so we will be  hitting some roadblocks in East. Barring that, I don't see a 
challenge anywhere in the country.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Pinakin Parekh from JPMorgan.  
Pinakin Parekh:  Yes. Sir, my first question is on pricing. Now earlier in the mo rning, one of your competitors 
highlighted that Eastern India, they have lost market share. And they want to prioritize volumes 
over there. Now Eastern is also seeing a lot of new capacity come through. So in terms of pricing, 
particularly for East India, what is the company's outlook for the same  for the remainder of the 
year?  
Atul Daga:  I think we have mentioned earlier also East with given the kind of growth that Eastern markets 
have and the new capacities coming in, each will continue to re main very tight market in terms 
of prices.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 7 of 17 
 
Pinakin Parekh:  Understood. Sir, my second question is that I'm just trying  to understand the energy cost math  
better. Slide mentioned USD 178 as the consumption cost in Q1, which, at today's pet coke 
prices, works  out to around USD 125, that's a broad 30% decline. Now pet coke is broadly 40% 
to 50% in terms of the overall energy basket. If pet coke prices were to sustain at today's level 
for the remainder of FY'24, should we assume a 30% energy cost decline? Or will  the overall 
energy cost decline be lower than this headline pet coke cost decline because of the other fuel?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. So if everything remains status quo, and let's say, today, pet coke prices are at USD 125 and 
that prevails throughout then, obviously, you would see it translating into a 20% to 30% decline 
in energy costs. Again, Pinakin, I tried to explain the math around it. Spot means 2 months 
forward loading, blah, blah, blah. So today' s spot, which is what July end, will come into 
consumption only by January. So that's how the math stack up.  
Moderator:  We have the next question from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies.  
Prateek Kumar:  sir, my first question is on your recent flow around some change in simple dynamic from BIS 
required for component cement and this  also there is on passing on LC3 as an acceptable product  
requirement . 
Atul Daga:  You are not very clear and audible. Can you speak a little louder?  
Prateek Kumar:  Yes. So I was asking regarding recent change in regulation or modification regulation on 
composite cement and then acceptance of LC3 as a product, how does that impact industry and 
us? 
Atul Daga:  So we are growing big in composite cement. Now compos ite cement requires 45% clinker. There 
are some players who are doing much lower clinker, which they will get impacted negatively. 
We have started with 45% clinker. So we are pretty bullish about it. Composite cement is getting 
very well accepted in the ma rket there's one reason why  one of the factors driving our 
improvement in our clinker factor. Also, competition is still not settled down across the country. 
So as it settles down, you could see a further improvement in clinker factor.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Coming to the LC3 Cement, I think it's a long story because on that  as of now there is identified 
large deposits where the cement plant can be set up based on the LC3 deposits actually. And 
obviously, it requires a real high investment compared to the n ormal conventional cement plant. 
So yes, it is good for future, but I don't think anything is like.  
Prateek Kumar : 4, 5 years, 7 year?  
Atul Daga:  So you might not see anything  for the next 4, 5 years.  
Prateek Kumar:  Sure. And the se cond question on other expense. So there were increase in other expense, 4% to 
5% on a quarter -to-quarter basis  while volumes were actually lower. So is there any one -off 
expense which was part of this quarter and was not part of last quarter?  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 8 of 17 
 
Atul Daga:  Advertisements were a bit higher. Anything else  So Q4 maintenance was lower and this quarter, 
the advertisement and maintenance costs were higher. So nothing  no one -offs. These are routine 
expenses.  
Prateek Kumar:  On freight expense, you mentioned in PPT that had an impact because of the cyclone and less 
profit. So is that only which isn't for increase on a Q -on-Q basis?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes, yes. That was one -off impact I will defer though I would not have been there, we would 
have robbed the market with another 30 million tonnes of sales.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, my first question is...  
Moderator:  Sorry to interrupt sir, but the line for you is not loud enough. If y ou could please use the handset 
and speak closer to the mic, it would help.  
Ashish Jain:  Is it better now?  
Atul Daga:  Ashish, you're not very clear. There's a lot of static noise.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Indrajit from CLSA.  
Indraji t: Few questions from my side. We have reduced our usage of pet coke. Is it just because of 
availability or on landed basis, coal is now cheaper  than pet coke for us?  
Atul Daga:  Availability. So on landed basis pet coke is far cheaper in energy terms, which is quite unusual  
it is more about the availability of pet coke.  
Indrajit:  And what would have been our alternate fuel usage in this quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Not sure how much. 5%.  
Indrajit:  And how do you see that progressing?  
Atul Daga:  So yes, we have taken a target to grow up to 9% to 10% by the end of next fiscal year. Lot of 
investment was required, which we have taken up in this financial year, close to INR250 crores. 
Yes, clos e to INR250 crores of investment is happening in this financial year for shredders and 
clearing systems, handling systems for alternat ive fuel. And accordingly, we are tying up also 
for alternat ive fuel. 
And if we look at it in volume terms, it's more than 1 million  more than 1.2 million tonnes of 
alternat ive fuel that we are already handling on an annual basis, that's huge volume. But anyway, 
as a percentage it is what it is, so.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 9 of 17 
 
Indrajit:  No, tha t makes sense. And given that we have now embarked on a small form and 
debottlenecking, any change in our capex plan? Or what would be...  
Atul Daga:  We do not have too much of capex . So it's all within my capex plan.  
Moderator:  Next question is from the li ne of Satyadeep Jain from A mbit Capital.  
Satyadeep Jain:  Couple of questions. One on the entire renewable energy , just want to understand would 
UltraTech , I know this is a subsidiary , Aditya Birla Renewable Energy but would be the growth 
of UltraTech be putting capital to this or will you buy it from outside? And based on where we 
are, what is the cost difference between the power reduction in renewable assets versus your 
own CPP. I'm n ot sure these will replace  CPP or grid. So any difference in costing ? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes. So first and foremost, we will do a group captive scheme. So we have to participate 
with about INR297 crores of equity into the SPV. And the second question that you asked was 
about pricing, so effectively and because we are supplying power to multiple states,  Average 
landed cost because there are transmission losses, open access charges, average landed cost 
would be around INR5.25 per unit. As compared to that, the cost of power currently would be 
around  -- INR7 to INR8 per unit.  
Satyadeep Jain:  INR7 to INR8 is both CPP and Grid? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, I'm talking about average cost of power for our individual units.  
Satyadeep Jain:  And secondly, on the capacity expansion, one of the peers have talked about accelerating their 
target that they had earlier the capacity you know, UltraTech also mentioned some time back a 
200 million target figure. Now that you have visibi lity for the next couple of years. Would you 
also look to accelerate given multi -volume growth, market share gain to start date beyond the 
current one that you have?  
Atul Daga:  No. So, as we mentioned, we are reaching 155 plus More, let's say, 159 already . And we will 
announce perhaps , -- maybe if not September , December quarter  for sure , our next phase of 
growth, which will take us further up from 155 upwards. So we are not going by what peers are 
doing. Ourgame plan is very clear. We see India as a growth market, and we are investing behind 
growth.  
Moderator:  We have the next question from the line of Sanjay Nandi from VT Capital.  
Sanjay Nandi : Congratulations on good set of numbers. Sir, can you please guide us what kind of drop in the 
like pet coke prices we can visualize in the coming quarters? Just a kind of guidance.  
Atul Daga:  Very difficult, very difficult. If you can tell me what the index will be after 2 days and I will tell 
you what our price is. Can you? To be honest, it's very volatile. Within 10 days, the prices have 
galloped up from 110 to 125, which can come down also, it can go upwards. So I have no idea.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 10 of 17 
 
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital.  
Amit Murarka:  Again. So on this next phase of expansion, like the last 2 phases that you've announced, you've 
seen that the capex cost per ton has been quite low at USD 65, USD 70 per ton on an average. Is 
it fair to say that the next phase of expansion could be like more greenfield and therefore, the 
cost could be a bit higher?  
Atul Daga:  No. We will because it will be continue to remain a mix. And if I look at my next phase I was 
just doing a mental math on what is happening. So it will still be a mix of green and brown and 
cost will be very competitive.  
Amit Mur arka:  Got it. Got it. And I think earlier, you had mentioned that you have a target of 200 million ton 
capacity, of which you are ready for 185 million tonnes.  So like that numbers still hold for the 
potential...  
Atul Daga:  Absolutely, absolutely, ban g on. So we will clearly by 2030, or anywhere between '2 8 to '30, we 
will reach a 200 million ton mark. And as I mentioned, the blueprint of our next phase of growth. 
Phase 3, if I were to call it is almost ready. I t will  go to our Board, perhaps next quarter, we are 
giving it final touches. Hopefully, it goes to our board next quarter and I can announce in next 
quarter.  
Amit Murarka:  Got it. It's helpful. And also on Super Dalla, is there any update or time line for the arbitration?  
Atul Daga:  Arbitrations never have time lines, it can go on for pretty long.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Understood. And lastly, on the FY'24 capex , like can you just have a refresh on that 
number? Or do you guys give capex guidance?  
Atul Daga:  It will be anywhere between INR6,000 cores, INR7,000 crores.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Pulkit Patni from Goldman Sachs.  
Pulkit Patni:  So you had to explain some time back how we are running at high capacity utilization and we 
would endeavor not to lose out on customers, and that's not a bad problem to have if the demand 
is so strong. Now given the fact that y ou are at such high capacity utilization, can you give a 12 - 
to 18 -month roadmap of how prices are going to head? I understand it's difficult to predict in the 
near term, but any sense on....  
Atul Daga:  We will sense then Pulkit. So the undercurrent, i f I can sense it . The undercurrent , even in the 
heavy monsoon months we have seen price increases happening, which it is never heard of. It's 
INR 23 or 5 increases have happened in certain geographies and they are sticking. So which is 
good enough. That's what I'm saying the undercurrent is very strong. And you're talking about 
18 months, I'm talking about 9 months. January, March will '24 new election, n ew capacities 
available, we will ramp up and we're bringing them more capacity. I already told you about 4 
million tonnes coming in this year, some more capacity, we are working with brick and speed , 

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 11 of 17 
 
we might try and commission some of our capacities earlier. Markets will be very strong, which 
will entail price improvements.  
Pulkit Patni:  Got it. Let's hope for that.  
Atul Daga:  Don't hope. I am telling it's going to happen.  
Pulkit Patni:  Okay. That's reassuring. My second question is, if I look at your presentation, is it fair that this 
quarter, you've seen the trade has grown faster than non -trade?  
Atul Daga:  I don't know how you are saying that.  
Pulkit Patni:  26% growth, I think, non -trade.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes. So I mentioned that statemen t. I'll give you one additional data point that rural markets 
is 65% of trade, and that is growing at 24%. So yes, trade is growing at a much faster pace. . 
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, my first question is on the fiscal '26 green power number that you gave of 1,200 megawatts. 
So that 60% that you said is not on operational basis, right? That is more on your capacity share, 
I think?   
Atul Daga:  I didn't understand, so you see on if I am consuming 1,000 require 1,000 megawatts of power, I 
will have 60% as green power.  
Ashish Jain:  Okay. Based upon this 1.2 gigawatt that you said you...  
Atul Daga:  We will reach 1.2 gigawatt of renewable energy and 425 megawatts of WHRS. Both are green. 
As for 155 million ton, how much power is required? About 1,200 megawatts of power will be 
required. So 720 megawatts will be green energy.  That way highly remunerati ve. Nobody asked 
a question, which is very good. But, yes.  
Ashish Jain:  And sir, secondly, in terms of capex , what is the capex we will need? Is it just the INR300 crores 
that you set the equity investment or...  
Atul Daga:  Yes, that will be our participati on. 
Ashish Jain:  Sir, secondly, in terms of growth on clinker, are we operating close to 100% utilization now 
given you on cement cases itself, you are at 90% for the quarter. So can you give some sense of 
our clinker utilization?  
Atul Daga:  It's more than  90% for sure. Actually it is more than 90%.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 12 of 17 
 
Ashish Jain:  Got it, Sir, lastly, on power, I just wanted to ask like given our view on power, are we today 
heavily booking pet coke at the prices available given it is clearly attractive pricing? Or we are 
still speaking to whatever strategy we have in terms of booking...  
Atul Daga:  No, we are also dynamic. I have increased my inventories. March quarter, we were at the end of 
March quarter, at38 days of stock. Today, we are at 58 days of  because as I mentioned, if you 
have heard me about China, I still feel China might start importing. So prices could rise in the 
near future.  
Ashish Jain:  And sir, for the balance, the 58% of our fuel o utside Pet coke, what is the price trend there? 
Because I think that is mostly imported coal, right? Or is it  apart from.  
Atul Daga:  Maximum is imported coal. We also have our FSA, which is the linkage coal, but maximum is 
imported coal. So if I were to look at percentages then  So 46% is imported coal, 7% indigenous 
coal, 42% Pet coke, 5% alternate fuel and lignite.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Shravan Shah from Dolat Capital.  
Shravan Shah:  Most of the question has been an swered. Just a couple of things. So,  first, in terms of the WHRS 
so currently 232 and we say 425 by FY '26, so by FY '24 or by FY '25, if you can help us how 
much more we will be adding...  
Atul Daga:  We will have By FY '24, we'll reach 300 and I think between '25 and '26, the remaining 
obviously.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And same way in terms of the solar and other.  
Atul Daga:  So maximum will come by end of '25.  
Shravan Shah:  Sorry, sir, by end of FY '24how much more.  
Atul Daga:  By end of '24, which project, there is maybe 100 megawatts more is in pipeline yes, 60 to 100 
megawatts is in pipeline before March '24.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And for this WHRS, so when we say INR6,000 crores, INR7,000 crores capex for this 
year and next year also, I believe, th is also improves the capex for the WHRS?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, absolutely. It includes my expansion capex , modernization, routine capex , WHRS capex  
order and fuel and everything.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. Okay. And sir, when  you say we are looking at double digit volume growth. So is it fair 
to say that it should be mid-teen kind of number that one can look at?  
Atul Daga:  I will comment not on that. So I'm already giving you guidance that industry will definitely s ee 
more than 10%.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 13 of 17 
 
Shravan Shah:  Okay. But in terms of the  considering the broader cost savings, including the lead distance 
reduction and everything, on broadly and plus now the power and fuel. So broadly on  from now 
onwards, we should be seeing impr ovement in EBITDA per ton on Q -o-Q basis?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. Most certainly. Q2 I hope, in spite of monsoon, maintenance costs, I think we should do 
well.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. But this quarter till now since June in terms of the blended realization for us. Still, we 
haven't you mentioned that we have seen a INR2, INR5 hike in some places. But on the overall 
blended basis, until now, we haven't seen any decline in prices for us.  
Atul Daga:  No decline.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securities.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, can't hear you.  
Moderator:  Sir, the current participant seems to have dropped from the question queue. The next question 
from the line of Raghav Maheshwari from Asian Markets.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Sir, can  you please break down the 640 renewal power into the -what is the first what kind of 
the solar and wind power in this?  
Atul Daga:  200 is wind and 400 days solar, if I remember it right. Just give me 1 minute, I'll tell you. If you 
have any other questio ns, then I can come back and tell you this.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Yes, sir. Sure. Sir, what is the blended mix for this renewal power at a blended level for this 648 
megawatts we are looking for PL F generation for this, particularly ? 
Atul Daga:  40%, 45%. 200-megawatt is wind is 368 and solar is 260.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Okay. And sir, last question is from my side for the next 1 and 2 years, where we are seeing the 
heavy infrastructure demand primarily in the non -trade in the OPC segments. How will you see 
the price difference between the trade and non -trade versus PPC, OPC? Primarily non -trade and 
trade.  
Atul Daga:  Non-trade is stronger in prices.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Any chance you will see for the gap reduced between the non -trade and trade further?  
Atul Daga:  Trade prices will go up, yes. Non -trade is already high. The trade prices will go up.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Okay. No further increase in the non -trade is it difficult? Prices in the non -trade?  
Atul Daga:  No, I don't really know that. It al l is dependent upon how the projects are coming up and how 
we can negotiate. Obviously, aim will be to realize more.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 14 of 17 
 
Moderator:  Next question is from the line of Jyoti Gupta  from Nirmal Ban g. 
Jyoti Gupta:  Thank you for a good set of numbers. I only had one primary question to ask that to see reduce 
on a lead distance? Could there be a saving which could have been reflected this quarter, Second 
is we do have a benefit in terms of the clinker conversion because I've seen your presentation to 
something like 1. 44. So while I was expecting that the fuel mix will impact the reduction of the 
cost will actuall y be reflected in this quarter.  
But apparently, it's not to the extent that were expected even at the price has gone by INR100 
per ton, the impact of the fuel reduction would have offset the reduction in the prices. So and 
second quarter, obviously, you are saying that we will see improvement in the EBIDTA  per ton. 
So what allfactors will actually contribute in the improvement of EBITDA per ton? 
Atul Daga:  So first question was about lead distance. The benefit that we accrue because of efficiency 
improvement are eroded by the busy season surcharge was was one major item because business 
premium surcharge kicked in eating our most of the improvement.  
Jyoti Gupta:  Is it  are we now having a railroad like say 70 -30, I'm sorry, correct me if I'm wrong and lead 
distance surcharge has earlier, it used to be on  a seasonal basis, but it's now full year round the 
year.  
Atul Daga:  It is full year. Yes.  
Jyoti Gupta:  So will that actually  I mean, will that not be negated, I mean like this must have been factored 
in the freight costs.  
Atul Daga:  No, this adds on to  my 30% rail, and it's pretty high, . On the 30% rail network that adds on to 
my overall cost, which negate the benefit that we are able to achieve on efficiency improvement. 
Actually, crude prices or diesel prices have n ot hardened over last quarter.  
Your last question is I remember was about what will be the drivers for profitability 
improvement. Of course, other than prices, you will have the benefit of fuel price reduction 
logistics cost improvement an d the increasing green energy share, which has my bottom line.  
Jyoti Gupta:  So will that really reflect in the second quarter number despite...  
Atul Daga:  No, not second quarter. See, the green energy projects are coming up by FY '25. The big projects, 
which we spoke about on this call will come up by June '25. That is where it will reflect second 
quarter , I would not want to comment because its rain. Third quarter, you will see the benefit of 
improvement in prices followed by fue l price gain. Logistics, if there are some other levies, 
which taken or enter, logistics will also drive home the benefit.  
Jyoti Gupta:  Prices I believe, have been actually dampened by a lot of B and C players actually supplying 
movement of a lot of cement across the region. So  I mean, I'm sure you are that positive about 
the price improvement after facilities. I'm sure there will be some improvement in the price.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 15 of 17 
 
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes.  
Jyoti Gupta:  And I don't think that will be more than INR5 per bag If at all that happens.  
Atul Daga:  If it is INR5 per bag on 100 million tonnes,  we are selling 200 crores bags, so that's a huge 
amount of money.  
Jyoti Gupta:  But anyway, that will be negated by no improvement in your cost because if you can say that 
the green power will actually come by FY'25.  
Atul Daga:  This big project of 648 -megawatt will commission by June '25. There are several small projects 
which are getting commissioned as I said about 100 megawatts is another project, multiple  
small, small projects, which are coming in during this year.  
Jyoti Gupta:  So effectively, we will not see much gain coming from the fuel price impact. I mean, just that 
my calculation on the composition where, as you said, I have something like 46% on the pet 
coke side,  85% on the AFR, but it looks like there is no improv ement assets that we'll be seeing 
in the third quarter on the fuel side, isn't it?  
Atul Daga:  we will see an improvement in fuel. We will see an improvement in fuel because of U.S. Fuel 
prices or the power and fuel chart that you see will be a decli ning chart in UltraTech.  
Jyoti Gupta:  Yes, because power I believe  I mean, if I take a 70 unit and as  6.5, if it goes steadily decreases 
by in 30 paisa, 40 paisa somewhere there should be, again, significant gain of … 
Atul Daga:  Absolutely.  
Moderator:  I am sorry to interrupt ma'am, we request you to please rejoin the queue for follow -up question. 
The next question is from the line of Uttam Kumar Srimal from Axis Securities Limited.  
Uttam Kumar Srimal : Sir, my question pertains to your RMC business. This quarter, we have grown by 37%. So this 
growth will continue for the remainder of the year?  
Atul Daga:  I hope so. And I think it will.  
Uttam Kumar Srimal : Okay. And sir, how much currently RMC plants are  operating? And what would be our target 
for addition of RMC plug in next 2 years?  
Atul Daga:  232 plants are in operation. We hope to reach a milestone of about 300 -plus plants by the end of 
this year, yes.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securities.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sir, a couple of questions. One, on the debottlenecking of 4 million tonnes.  So is that got to do 
with the increase in blending ratio that gives an opportunity or we are having a committed clinker 

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
debottlenecking of roughly around 3 or I mean, around 2.5 million tonnes,  3 million tonnes,  
which will help get those volumes?  
Atul Daga:  We have sufficient clinker Navin and these 4 million tonnes is grinding. These are all grinding 
capacity.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Okay. Primarily, so this debottlenecking is largely on the grinding side.  
Atul Daga:  Grinding, yes.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Okay. Then the other thing I just wanted to ask was about this other operating income. I see in 
this quarter, it has  gone up by almost INR92 crores on a sequential basis. So just wanted to get 
some color if there any more booking of incentives that has happened this quarter? Or is it  
normal ? 
Atul Daga:  This is not normally consistent, I will give... No  there is nothing on income tax. There's no 
abnormal incentive , my colleague is just checking on it . So Pali as a unit started getting its 
incentive, but that is INR14 crores or something. That was only INR14 crores.  Operating I thi nk. 
Nothing. So it's volume linked, maybe I don't really have an answer.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure, sure. I just wanted to get a sense because...  
Atul Daga:  No, there is nothing abnormal, nothing abnormal.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure. I was just seeing that March volume s were higher and June was sequentially a little lower, 
but... 
Atul Daga:  Lower that, nothing that comes to my mind which is abnormal, but I will just get the team to 
double check and Ankit will revert to you directly.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure. Sir, just one last bit you said pricing, of course, is healthy in current markets, in fact in 
some markets you said have seen an increase. So and the expected fuel cost benefits, demand 
continues to grow. So very broadly for an exit FY '24 Q4, lik e in last quarter of this fiscal, the 
EBITDA per ton that we could look at should be  would you guide something like 1,400, 1,500, 
kind of a number for that March quarter, of course, things remaining same, the pricing and cost 
and everything?  
Atul Daga:  No. Everything remaining same, it will improve. I will not guide to a number, but it will be 
significantly higher from this quarter.  Navin, the point is everything remaining equal  And it's 
not a static world.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Yes, yes. Of course, I understand that. But like I said you mean.  

     Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  July 21, 2023  
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
Atul Daga:  Things are looking more  positive. That's the most important element. I think, Navin, my 
colleague clarified it's generally incentives, which have started kicking in the other operating 
income that yo u were asking..  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure. So from an annualized -- so let's say from a quarterly run rate INR200 crores of run rate 
going ahead?  
Atul Daga:  Should be possible according to this.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure. And just one last bit, if I may repeat.  You sa id pricing, of course, in current environment 
with demand being strong is, of course, looking good and it should pick up coming quarters. But 
next year, which is like after the elections next year, typically demand may get a little soft like 
it happened in  FY'20 that FY'19 saw a 13% plus kind of a growth, but 20% was just flat. So that 
happens even in that scenario, would you be confident on pricing? Or it's too far to talk about?  
Atul Daga:  It's too far to talk about, but yes, I think the market generally suffering also for a few months 
after elections.  
Moderator:  Ladies and gentlemen, we will take that as the last question. On behalf of UltraTech Cement, 
that concludes this conference. Thank you for joi ning us. You may now disconnect your lines.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you so much.  

 
 Page 1 of 17  
 
 
“UltraTech Cement Limited Q2 FY-23 Earnings 
Conference Call”  
 
October 19, 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. ATUL DAGA – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CFO,  
ULTRA TECH CEMENT LIMITED  


 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 2 of 17 
Moderator : Ladies and gentlemen good day and welcome to the  Q2 FY23 Earnings Conference Call  of 
UltraTech Cement Limited.  We must remind you that the discussion on today's call may 
include certain forward -looking statements and must be therefore viewed in conjunction  with 
the risks that the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, 
modify or revise any forward -looking statement on the basis of any subsequent development, 
information or events or otherwise.  
As a reminder, all participant lines will be in the listen -only mode and there will be an 
opportunity for you to ask questions after the presentation concludes. Should you need assistance 
during the conference, please signal an operator by pressing "*" and then "0" on your touchtone 
phone. Please note that this conference is being recorded.  
I now hand the conference over to Mr. Atul Daga – Executive Director an d CFO of the company. 
Thank you  and over to you, Mr. Daga .  
Atul Daga:   Thank you so much. Good evening and a very warm welcome to all of you to this earnings call 
of UltraTech  Cement. As was expected, this quarter has not been good for the industry as well 
as ourselves alike. Lots of things happened which went not in favor of the industry, which are 
clearly reflected in our numbers as well.  
Let me talk about all the negatives first and there are lots of good things also to talk about : 
Firstly, the monsoon  as you are already seeing everybody is aware monsoon s have been so 
erratic. It seems to be a dramatic ecological change that is taking place in the country. Excessive 
monsoons  have been there almost all parts of the country, except maybe some areas like Tamil  
Nadu , Assam and Meghalaya , which saw lesser rains,  delayed exit of monsoon has been causing 
some amount of pressure on cement consumption and construction activity and i t remains to be 
seen how the delayed exit of monsoons will impact the crops. We'll have to wait and watch.  
Cost is the next item which I would want to touch upon and as I had mentioned in the call during 
our last quarter , the costs are still elevated, contin ue to remain high, primarily driven by the 
rising prices of fuel. There was a brief period of merriment when petcoke prices dropped to 170 
and everybody thought that this reduction is permanent. I'm sure many players interested in 
petcoke  would have booked  some contract s between 17 0-190. But t oday, as of yesterday in fact, 
the prices of petcoke  are back to (+205). There was some news about Venezuela n supplies as 
well. However,  we were advised not to venture into Venezuela supplied with the US sanctions . 
Coal is stuck around $3 00-$350. Softened up a bit, but still very high. Not yet worth buying for 
most of the cement players as there is significant arbitrage in petcoke. Few years ago it used to 
be opposite. Petco ke was expensive as compared to coal.  
In our analysis, the geopolitical situation continues to be the driver for determining the cost s or 
the trends or the direction in which the fuel costs will move. China is always the sleeping giant . 
Today the Chinese ec onomy is down, but I'm sure China will revive open -up at some point or 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 3 of 17 
the other. Europe has started its coal fired engines because of the ongoing war in Europe , in the 
Russia European war which is also sucking a lot of co al supplies.  
Our view is that fue l costs will remain high due to the ongoing geopolitical scenario. Albeit, we 
have seen the worst on coal and pet coke  prices. Hopefully they should not go up further. Crude 
has softened a bit, but we'll have to wait till the government decides to pass on t he benefit to 
industrial consumers. We have to wait and see in the manner in which it is passed on and how 
much is passed on.  
During this quarter, UltraTech has  completed shutdown work on almost 19 of its kil ns out of the 
total 43  kilns. Maintenance costs have been higher because of inflationary pressure on refractory  
brick  cost and other maintenance costs. Prices were under pressure towards the end of May ‘22 
and they saw a continuous slide. Monsoon s don't see any opportunity in increasing prices. 
However,  the first available opportunity that the industry saw, I believe in pockets  where demand 
has been good, price increases have been attempted. Some price increases have settled, some 
have not settled in the country. Typical of the Indian cyclical cement ind ustry, the season for 
cement starts after the festive season is over, which is after Di wali. So, Diwali ends on 24th and 
maybe 25th of this month and you should start seeing improvement in the market sentiment on 
all factors after that  only.  
One negative aspe ct about the rising prices of fuel is large cash flows are getting blocked in 
costl ier working capital. After enjoying a long run of negative working capital, we ha d no choice 
but to give up the ga ins w ith rising costs and identifying pockets of opportunities to buy cheaper 
fuel, we have increased consciously, we have increased our inventor ies which has resulted in 
increase in our working capital. However, I am confident that in the next 6 months as volumes 
go up as the cost of purchase of fuel st abilizes , our working capital will go back into the negative 
working capital zone before the end of this fiscal year. There is no reason why the industry will 
not take prices up since the margins are continuously under pressure.  
Let me now talk about the p ositive side : 
Demand has been good and that is the most important factor, most heartwarming factor from our 
perspective . On an increased capacity, we increase d about 4.5 million tons of capacity  YOY. O n 
an increased capacity our domestic volumes have grown  about 10%. This could have been higher 
but for the heavy monsoons . Improvement in capacit ies bode well for profitability and cash 
flows. Good capacity utilization is the key. Good capacity utilization would easily help increase 
prices.  
This year and the next year definitely can be delivering a double -digit growth. Why? Well, 
because the first half itself at UltraTech we have recorded about an average of 14% growth 
despite a we ak monsoon quarter. As you are all aware that demand starts picking up post 
Nove mber and March is a peak period. Definitely we should be able to deliver double digit 
growth  this year and next year as well.  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 4 of 17 
During the quarter we've commissioned about 32 MW of renewable energy taking the total to 
318 MW which makes it to 5. 6% of our to tal powe r consumption. An additional 5 MW WHRS  
was also commissioned. Bi rla White  continues to strengthen it s position in the industry . Putty 
expansion that we had undertaken  4 lakh tons of additional c apacity , it's under trial production 
and we hope to commercialize the plant before the end of this month or mid - November. Imports 
from Rak White will further s trengthen the brand presence in the country. I believe the first 
shipment will happen during this quarter. We have been steadily growing our construction 
chemicals business which recorded revenues of about 132 crores, up from 82 crores last year.  
On our growth plan  we are again ready to ride the high demand cycle with additional capacity 
getting commissioned. During the reported period we commissioned Dalla br ownfield 
expansion of 1.3 million t ons ending this quarter at 115 .85 million tons of capacity. Pali, 
greenfi eld plant and Dhar brownfield expansion is almost ready to roll out production and we 
should see commissioning of these plants in the October -December quarter.  
We are on course , on track to reach 131.25 million tons of capacity by the end of March ‘23 
which will be fully available for the next fiscal year to meet the rising demand and generate 
additional cash flows for the company and the shareholders. All this capacity expansion is being 
met out o f internal accruals  and this year we expect cash outflow on CAPEX  of anywhere 
between 6000 crores  to 7000 crore s. We have already done in the first half of I think 2900 or 
3000 crore s of cash has already been spent on C APEX  in the first half. The phase 2 expansion 
of 22.6 million t ons which was announced last quarter , work has commenced  almost 500 crores  
of spending has taken place on advanced payments, labor mobilization, some sites civil work 
has already started. This is going to take us to our next miles tone of 153  million tons of capacity 
by ‘25-26.  
A quick update on ESG ; we continue to focus on reducing CO2 emissions with several 
collaborations and global tie -ups. Four of our key cement products have been granted 
environment product declaration. It's c alled EPD. This is a key step in our endeavor to drive 
sustainability in our business with a lifecycle approach. With this UltraTech  green product 
portfolio includes more than 70 GreenPro certified products. We continue our focus on 
improving our blending ratios this quarter yet again we have gone up to 1.4 1 as our conversion 
ratio, blended cement continues to rise. Blended cement has reached about 71% which helps us 
meet our targets to reduce our carbon emissions. In the end, I'll conclude by saying that I  believe 
cement is going to see a good time in the next few years and for which UltraTech  is very well 
prepared. Thank you and over to you for questions.  
Moderator : Thank you  very much  sir. We will now begin the question -and-answer  session.  The first question 
is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from  Kotak Securities . 
Sumangal Nevatia : My first question is with respect to the energy costs. I missed the opening remarks. If you see 
both the coal and petco ke it's been quite volatile. It correcte d from the p eak sharply but again 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 5 of 17 
has started increasing. So, if you could just elaborate. I mean how do we see on consumption 
basis our power and fuel cost shaping up in the next two quarters?  
Atul Daga:  We believe that this quarter,  the July-September q uarter was a peak cost and we should start 
seeing marginal reduction in our consumption cost in the next two quarters.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Is it possible to quantify?  
Atul Daga:  No.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay, generally how many days of inventory are we carrying  or have we increased our…?  
Atul Daga:  Our normal norm is about 45 days and this time we have consciously gone up to 55 days. That 
is why I spelt out our working capital increase also taking place.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Understood, that's helpful. On t he RM cost we read the comment and also that index which you 
shared on the fly -ash, it's up 8% -9% quarter -on-quarter which is a bit unusual. Is it possible to 
share? What sort of inflation are we seeing in other RM s like sla g, gypsum and also is this 
seaso nal one-off spike?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, Sumangal t his is one -off. What happens is that in case there is a power plant shutdown, so 
you have to s ource fly -ash from a next available power plant which will be obviously further 
away , so the transportation cost goes  up. There is no pattern that you can establish accordingly 
on fly-ash costs.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay, understood. Just one last broad question on the overall M&A , there are a lot of media 
reports on say  JP Assets, India Cement  and few regional players in east and west. How do we 
see the M&A activity  shaping up in the sector and given our market share, what sort of inorganic 
growth appetite do you see  for UltraTech?  
Atul Daga:  All I can share with you  is to allay the  confusion i n mind s of several people that given our size 
we will get restricted on consolidation. But t he geography is wide open for UltraT ech to 
consolidate through inorganic ro utes also. As and when  some opportunity surfaces in any part 
of the country, we will exam ine it.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Amit Mura rka from A xis Capital.  
Amit Murarka:  On the cost side, like in the presentation it s mentioned that the power and fuel cost was $200. 
The fuel was $200 per ton. This includes the domestic co al sourcing as well or this is the 
imported fuel cost. 
Atul Daga:  This is import ed fuel cost. Domestic coal for us is a very small percentage, 7%  to 8% only.  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 6 of 17 
Amit Murarka:   Last time in the last call, you had mentioned that there w ere some cargo s of Russia n coal and 
all which  was taken. So, was that there in this quarter  and t he sourcing is continuing as of now?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, it has started getting into consumption in this quarter  and it was an opportunistic trade. In 
case something again surfaces, we will examine it.  
Amit Murarka:  On the petco ke, the spot prices, could you just share  some light on that? Like, what is the spot 
petco ke? Is it closer to like 200 or is it gone beyond th at also? 
Atul Daga:  Beyond 200 now.  I mentioned on the call Amit  205.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay,  I missed that.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Ri tesh from Invest ec.  
Ritesh:  Couple of questions, f irst one is you indicated you are open to inorgan ic growth. How should 
we look at it? What are the things that you look at which will make us attract  to the  asset?  
Atul Daga:  You see, our fundamental premise for evaluating any asset is a profitable growth opportunity. 
I'll pay a price on which I am able to generate return for shareholders and we will buy an asset 
where we can increase our market presence. Also,  I mentioned that India is a wide -open  
geography for us as well.  
Ritesh:  If I have to take one step over here, how would you look at versus  the expansion option ality that 
we have on the table which you have indicated? Like, we are absolutely going full t hrottle. We 
have a pipeline which  is actually workable. If you look at the i ncremental ROCE  versus the 
optionali ty that we have on the table, how should one look at that comparative ma th on 
incremental ROCE ?  
Atul Daga:  So, incremental ROCE or  organic  obviously, it is time value of money and you get an inorganic 
opportunity. You hit the ball, hit the road running. That is the advantage that one would have on 
inorganic versus organic and it depends on the price that you are paying . Today  organic would 
be costing absolutely green field where you are requiring land  also. It will cost $110 -$120, give 
or take. That is how and if you start investing today, it will take you 7 years to put up that 
capacity. As compared to that you might pay some premium. You will have to pay a premium 
over a replacement cost . But y ou also get advantage of 7 years of market share and cash flow s.  
Ritesh:  My second question is we have  indicated our … 
Atul Daga:  This is third not second.  
Ritesh:  I have four total. We  have indicated inc remental exp ansion plans on  the capacity side. I just 
wanted to have your thoughts on what are our plans on distribution.  Basically,  incremental rails 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 7 of 17 
head,  bulk cement  terminal s, optimizing sea freight  and DFC, h ow should we look at all the se 
co-variables   
Atul Daga:  So, fleet expansion , we don't own fleet. Our transporters continuously add fleet as in when  
wher ever it is required. Our transporters who are associated with the organization, with the group 
for maybe four decades , they will expand  their fleet as and when required. Our endeavor is to 
continuously improve , increase the penetration in terms of dealer network . Today our channel 
partners spread  would be upwards of 1 lakh,  close to 1,10,000 channel partners and a 
continuously increasing n umber. DFC is opening up. I saw Rajasth an has already started double 
story wagon s. Of course,  they have not yet been made available for cement but I think things are 
opening up. As for bulk terminals, our expansion footprint is always planned in a manner w here, 
if a bulk terminal is required,  we will take it into account upfront instead of waiting. For example, 
in the second phase of growth we have 2 bulk terminals already planned and any future 
requirement  also bul k terminals will be planned , grinding  unit. So, it will be a split grinding unit 
composition that will come into pla y. The last point that you mentioned about as far as railway 
siding , there is no target.  
Ritesh:  Railway siding and sea freight.  
Atul Daga:  As far as railway sidings are concerned,  I think we keep on adding wherever available  whenever 
available . Last time I remember  that it was beyond  260 odd rail heads , (+260) rail heads. It's not 
a top-down  target  but operational efficiency improvement plan with which we keep on adding 
railway  siding. As for an ocean route is concerned , we have our own jetty at our Gujarat  plant , 
bulk terminals , 279 ra ilway  sidings as of now . Bulk terminals along the coastline there is 
Mumbai , that is JNPT . Then it goes down to Mangalore. Mangalore also, right? Bulk Terminal?  
Yes. 
Atul Daga:   Mangalore, Cochin, so this is on the coastline. We will look at expanding our network on the 
eastern side as well. We don’t have bulk terminals at the moment, but we will look at expanding 
that network in our second, third phase of growth.  
Ritesh:  Sir, just one last question. We have an interesting launch on white cement based liquid primer. 
Just wanted to understand what is the rational for it to be in UltraTech and why not Grasim given 
for the limited understanding it is better to bundle it with paint versus putty.  
Atul Daga:   Because the raw material is white cement, and all the primer and putty -based products are done 
by UltraTech . That's why it's here.  
Moderator:  The next qu estion is from the line of Prat eek Kumar from Jefferies.  
Prat eek Kumar:  My first question is on utilization ; you have  mentioned your overall utilization is around 76%  
and can you throw some light on region wise utilizations?  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 8 of 17 
Atul Daga:   Region wise utiliza tions, so north was nearly 85%, central was 70%, east was 9 0%, west was 
more than 60, south was more than 75.  
Prat eek Kumar:  How much you said for central region?  
Atul Daga:   Around 70%.  
Prat eek Kumar:  And on pricing overall it appears that we had like arou nd a 2.5% grey cement  realization decline 
or a 2% to 3% d ecline on a sequential basis. How would that be region wise?  
Atul Daga:   Region wise, I think east was the least impacted, north  saw a decline, north and c entral were the 
leaders in decline. East was better placed, west was neutral.  
Prat eek Kumar:  And i n the presentation you have mentioned that there was a preponement of maintenance  
shutdown . Did that have any specific impact on cost which was like one-off. 
Atul Daga:   I think my maintenance costs were higher than planned by about 80 crores . I think it was 80 
crores, ye s. 
Prat eek Kumar:  When you say  like-for-like, b asically last year … 
Atul Daga:   What I mean was that we had planned original plan as per our annual budget , ‘x’ number of kilns  
were pla nned. We did three more kilns than that in this period.  And the  spending was also higher, 
partly because of cost of procurement going higher and partly because of additional work that 
was done.  
Prat eek Kumar:  And last question on your logistics costs , in your p resentation you mentioned diesel  price are 
lower like 5% but our like -to-like logistics cost is down 1%. So, when you change in lead 
distance which is resulting in over decline  in logistic s cost. 
Atul Daga:   Diesel cost is not 100% logistics cost . 
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Pinakin Parekh  from JP  Morgan.  
Pinakin Parekh:  You mentioned that east prices have relatively held up better than the other regions. But t his is 
also region where we would see the maximu m capacity addition over the next two quarters. And 
the presentation highlights that Chhattisgarh and Orissa had seen degrowth due to sand mining 
bans. Given t his context, how do you see the east markets at this point of time . Is d emand going 
to get furthe r impacted because of what's happening  in Chhattisgarh and Orissa ? 
Atul Daga:   I believe Pinakin, east will be the best performing market in terms of demand  and t hat is why I 
think nobody is a fool to add additional capacity in that market. There is a big science  or big 
rationale which each player is having to add capacity in that market. So, this additional capacity 
will get absorbed in east, demand will continue to support . But don't want to get into comments 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 9 of 17 
on individual states or a point in time becaus e sand issues are here today, then something else 
will happen tomorrow. But i f you look at the underlying demand, underlying capacity utilization 
in this quarter also in fact, we have the highest within our regional spread , our capacity utilization 
in the east was the highest. I believe the industry, not just UltraTech, industry  players will 
continue to enjoy a good capacity utilization  in east.  
Pinakin Parekh:  My second question is basically this is the second quarter where UltraTech’s India realization 
seem to have outperform ed the peers. We ha d seen a larger than peer group increase in the first 
quarter, and we have seen a smaller than peer group decline in the second quarter. In your sense, 
is this because of higher nontrade mix, more premium products or specific regions aiding this 
performance?  
Atul Daga:   Should I reveal  all my trade secrets to you? So, va lue added product is continuously going up. 
It's reached more than 18%  now. That is one area  we are increasing our blended cement  ratios, 
increasing our trade ratios as well. And plus, there has to be some respect that you should give 
to UltraTech  as a brand. So, w e have historically commanded superior pricing as compared to 
the other players and I believe UltraTech  will continue to  do so.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Pulkit  from Goldman Sachs.  
Pulkit:  Just one question. You mentioned that it is because of monsoon having a prolonged impact that 
demand got impacted. Now, our understanding was that July and August w ere we ak months 
since S eptember is actually a  relatively stronger month. Would that be correct that we have  
exited September at a much stronger volume print or is it the other way around  based on what 
you just said . 
Atul Daga:   If I remember it right  Pulki t, all the months have shown growth . And yes, I think my colleague 
confirm s September was a higher growth as compared to the other month s. But each month we 
have seen growth.  
Pulkit:  So, w e can expect that since September exit was a stronger month and now that we are off 
monsoon, hopefully this momentum should continue for us.  
Atul Daga:   I will just not go with that statement of yours that we are off monsoon . I don't know whether the 
monsoons  are off or not.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Indrajit Agarwal  from CLSA.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  I have two questions. First sir, on capital allocation going ahead. So, a ssuming at 13 0-131 million 
tons capacity we'll be able to sell close to 100 million and if not more and should generate close 
to Rs. 12,000 crores  of EBITDA annually  even with Rs. 6,000 crores  of CAPEX  we will have 
significant amount of free cash flow to make it net cash positive in two years at best. So, a ny 
thoughts on other than in organic expansion , return of cash to shareholders ? 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 10 of 17 
Atul Daga:   That is always there. I think the dividend allocation was increase d to 20% year before last and 
now we are again looking at growth. So, as I said this quarter, whilst we had  a positive operating 
cash flow , but net cash after CAPEX  was negative. We have CAPEX  happening in 24 -25 as well 
and a shade of part of 26 will also see an extra amount of CAPEX. I f you ’ll recall two years ago 
or three years ago, our average annual CAPEX  would be (+) ( -) 2000 crores  and now we ar e 
going to see (+) (-) 6000 cores for the next two or three years. Having said that we are still on 
course,  or we are delayed as of now b ecause of the cash flow being used for CAPEX, o therwise 
we would have been  in the net cash  already in this year . I expect net cash to be on the balance 
sheet towards the end of March 24.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Second,  calendar  23 will be the pre -election year  and i f there has to be any significant bump up 
on infra -activity  demand from infra government spending, we should have seen some bit of 
preordering already. Are you seeing any signs of that yet?  
Atul Daga:   Not yet. I think we expect more than what is happening. See, the good part is that we have 
recorded 10% growth domestic sales in this heavier monsoon quarter. So, o bviously there is a 
positive direction in which the orders are flowing, and cement  consumption is happening, and I 
expect it should go up further.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  That buoyancy you see in the  rural residential part as well ? 
Atul Daga :  Yes. 
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Nav in Sahadeo  from Edelweiss S ecurities.  
Navin Sahadeo:  In the previous questions, t hank you for giving the region wise color on utilization s as well as 
realization s. Is it possible to get some trend on profitability? For example, your average EBITDA 
per ton  was more like Rs . 800. So, is it possible to get which  regions are little more profitable 
than these and others lag around?  
Atul Daga:   I don't have that at the moment.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Very broadly.  
Atul Daga:   If I look at the prices , so then obviously south would be the leader in profitability, followed by 
west and north catches up along with …East is of course, at the last step in terms of profitability . 
Central and nort h would be behind south and west.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sir, my second question was about your fuel mix. So, presentation says 40%  is pet coke and I 
think y ou also mentioned imported coal is 7% to 8%, if I heard that correctly.  
Atul Daga:   Domestic coal is 7% to 8%. 
Navin Sahadeo:  Okay, so if you could just give me the overall fuel mix both in the kilns  and power plants.  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 11 of 17 
Atul Daga:   Indigenous coal 15% , imported coal 46% . One  second. I should look at kiln separately. 
Indigenous coal in kiln was 5%, imported coal was 50%, pet coke  was 40%. Alternate  fuel was 
about 5.2%. That's in the  kiln. 
Navin Sahadeo:  And the earlier number was for TPP,  the 46% ? 
Atul Daga:   We don't have TPP  separate data hybrid numbe r with TPP plus kiln, TPP one second , it is there. 
TPP indigenous coal 56%, imported coal 29%, pet coke 5%, others 10% , lignite which is 
essentially an  alternate fuel.  
Navin Sahadeo:  The thing on th is kilns bit because you mentioned that pet coke  is far mo re favorable in terms of 
cost. The imported coal that we are using is at par to that cost because of better sourcing or it's 
conscious that we don't want to go higher on the pet coke  consumption . 
Atul Daga:   We have to balance the pet coke coal  mix and our  coal procurement is far more efficient than 
anybody else's.  
Navin Sahadeo:  But it still is higher than pet coke  on a landed  basis even now , right? So, a re we looking at 
increasing pet coke  considerably from 40% currently or it will still this is what max it is.  
Atul Daga:   It can go up to 50% to 60%.  
Navin Sahadeo:  So, w hich basically then means that if this mix is changing , Q3 can then see a very meaningful 
decline in the cost ? 
Atul Daga:   I had mentioned that the cost will come down for Q3. 
Navin Sahadeo:  Before it takes up agai n because  spot prices are again…  
Atul Daga:   Naveen, we cannot r eally start analyzing spot prices. So, o ur game plan we will deliver lower 
cost this quarter and low er cost next quarter.  
Navin Sahadeo:  And then just my last question. You mentioned working capital as the prime reason. But i f I 
mean for that increase in debt, net debt position , so g iven that these fuel prices are again sort of 
bottoming out maybe say or  going up, is it fair to say that this working capital funds will stay 
locked even for March  or that would still…  
Atul Daga:   Again, I had mentioned, and I would have requested you to listen to my commentary more 
carefully . We would get into a negative wor king capital zone before the end of March  with 
volumes going up will be one big driver for more cash collection s takes place with higher 
volumes . Inventories  we have now reached about 54 or 55 days. By the end of March, we will 
come down to our normal leve l of 45 days. So, that will release cash. Cost of purchase will be 
lower  as of now . So, no body knows how prices will actually pan out. But o ur planning is to 
release working capital cash by March  for sure.  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 12 of 17 
Navin Sahadeo:  Great. I did hear your  comment. I was just confirming because since the fuel prices are wherever 
they are today … 
Atul Daga:   Naveen, but that today. There was a time when the pet coke  was 170 and everybody started 
annualizing  it. That was not the right thing to do.  So, t his is the most unpredictable time s that 
we are going through.  
Navin Sahadeo:  And just one last confirmation. Did you say we have spent about close to Rs. 3,000 crores in 
CAPEX so far into the year?  
Atul Daga:   First half, yes.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Because I'm just loo king at your balance sheet and the capital work in progress or even total 
property plant and  equipment, these numbers are up like about Rs. 800 crores odd each which is 
Rs. 1,600 crores. J ust trying to understand … 
Atul Daga:   Lot of advance would be there.  That is one point which I can think about . Advance also in CWIP, 
right ? 
Navin Sahadeo:  Capital advances are reported separately.  
Atul Daga:   So, capital advances also  you need to add, but I don't know what the accounting issue is.  But I 
can get an explanation sent to you separately.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure, that would be really helpful. Thank you so much for answering and  all the very best.  
Moderator:  The next question is from  the line of Ashish Jain  from Macquarie.  
Ashish Jain:  Firstly, o n coal  you made a comment that pet coke can go to like 50 %-60%. So, g iven the current 
pet coke and coal prices, I believe we should be going to 70 %-80% pet coke, right? So, is t here 
anything constraining us on that front?  
Atul Daga:   There are technical constraints, that's all I know that there are technical constraints . In the earlier 
days when pet coke  was darling of the industry , those days also, we had tested, and we reach ed 
about 78% peak. So, there is some issue with blending . You know  limestone from min e to mine 
has different qualit ies because of which  you cannot m ix 100% petco ke. Second point would be 
availability. As and when petco ke is available, one would pick up shipments of petcoke . 
Ashish Jain:  Secondly, in terms , let's say growth plans outside the organic plans that we have, if we have to 
explore M&A , like any  specific region where both were interested and we will not even face 
regulatory issues in terms of our market share and those k ind of stuff, can you point where our 
strategy …. 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 13 of 17 
Atul Daga:  We are interested in India for organic opportunities . I will not have regulatory issues in any 
geography in the country  as of today, at this stage where we are, I don't know 5 years -6years 
later. Ashish, we have  evaluated through all the lenses that the regulators look at and what is the 
requirement. So, we are well within the norm s. 
Ashish Jain:  Just couple of housekeeping questions. One , what was the share of trade cement this quarter ?  
Atul Daga : Trade was 68%.  
Ashish Jain:  Secondly you spoke about the chemical business revenues which has crossed 100 crores  this 
time. In our segmentation  where do we put that? Is it in gre y cement or it's in others?  
Atul Daga:  Very small, less than 1% so there is no segmentation.  There is no segmentation . It is part of 
cement only Ashish.  
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Girish Choudhary from Spark Capital .  
Girish Choudhary:  Firstly, I would like to get your sense  on the industry’s supply  dynamics . Are you worried of the 
potential build up or a surprise  in the overall supply with also the new entrant  infusing  significant 
amount of money and from the other larger players  having a strong balance sheet. So, just wanted 
to get your sense  on the  supply dynamics , that's the first one ? 
Atul Daga:  My guess is that all the supply which comes in organic supply will get absorbed easily. Because 
if you see India as a story will show you much higher growth as compared to any other market 
because there's a huge amount of development required , there's huge amount of housing 
required. It's a no brainer statement which I'm making. But yes, India will see a huge amount of 
cement  consumption happening for a few years  to in the next few years. 2 years can be 10 years , 
more than 10 years that I don't know  but as of now it's still a very long distance away when India 
also reaches a saturation point and growth tapers  down. So, as long as there's growth potential , 
additional c apacity will get absorbed . And one more point  one needs to keep in mind that total 
capacity that one looks at is a myth because there are lots of capacities which are non -
operational , lots of capacities which are inefficient or shut. Effective capacity , available capacity 
is lower than the nameplate capacity that you might be tracking.  
Girish Choudhary:  Secondly if I look at your Phase -1 and Phase -2 capacity addition plans roughly which is around 
40% plus of addition. West is the region which is seeing a very low capacity coming in roughly 
around  1.8 million tons so any reasons why  a lower addition here? Is to do with reserve s or 
utilization s or you are looking at inorganic?   
Atul Daga:  I am not able to hear you clearly. Which region you picked up as low addition?  
Girish Choudhary:  As in West, if you look at West, you're adding  only 1.8 million  tons. So, between Phase -1 and 
Phase -2? 

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 14 of 17 
Atul Daga:  West is more GU.  
Girish Choudhary:  So, you are just adding..   
Atul Daga:  Yes, mine s is not a constraint  and West luckily, we have coastal plants so I can bring limestone 
from the Middle East in case of it. Limestone as a resource is not a constraint in the Western 
market . West, we have enough capacity available and we don't put surplus capacity and create 
problems fo r us. We will put up capacity where we feel that we need additional volume s right 
now.  
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Rajesh Kumar Ravi from  HDFC Securities.   
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  I don't know if you have already answered this. Could you ta lk on the fuel cost on a per kilo cal 
basis? How was it in Q 2 and versus Q 1? 
Atul Daga:  Rs. 2,489 per million kcal was the cost in Q 2 as compared to 2,215  in the previous quarter  and 
if I go back 1 year, Q2 FY22  it was 1 ,427. 1 ,427 has come up to 2 ,489. 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  In this quarter how are the numbers currently in October ?  
Atul Daga:  We'll talk in January.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Directionally is it coming off?  
Atul Daga:  What is coming off?  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Quarter -on-quarter  do you see this number coming off versus what you saw in Q2?  
Atul Daga:  The fuel cost?  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Yes, fuel cost per kcal?  
Management:  Yes, fuel cost will come off.  
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Kamlesh Bagmar from Lotus Asset M anager s.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  Just one question  on the cost side . Going forward in a couple of years , what quantum of cost 
reduction do you see like say be it freight  side or power  and fuel cost ?  
Atul Daga:  About Rs. 100 a ton would definitely come out of cost reduction s, minimum.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  On the variables side?  
Atul Daga:  On the?  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 15 of 17 
Kamlesh Bagmar:  Variable side?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Kamlesh Bagmar:  In the presentation we have  mentioned 19 .5% as the mix of the renewable power. Is it in terms 
of the capacity  or in terms of the power usage in this quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Actual generation . 
Kamlesh Bagmar:  Lastly you have 4 0% odd share of petcoke so vis -à-vis imported coal because this 2 ,489 looks 
to be v ery competitive as compared to what thermal coal prices are. Is it the case that the grade 
of the imported coal which we are using is also equally competitive as compared to the petcoke ? 
Atul Daga:  Yes, you get  US coal is very high -grade coal. 6,900 kcal.  
Management : Normally we are not buying RB1.  
Kamlesh Bagmar:  So, that would be RB 3 or all that. That's why th at is also competitive,  compared to the…  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Moderator : The next  question  is from the line of Shravan Shah from  Dolat Capital.   
Shravan Shah:  What was the lead distance in this quarter?  
Atul Daga:  428 kilometers.  
Shravan Shah:  You mentioned that regulatory issue will not be there. You have taken care of that in terms of 
the inorganic expansion. Just trying to further understand , for my understanding in terms of if 
we go for Nuvoco acquisition, I'm just giving an example. So, how do the CCI look at ? 
Atul Daga:  I don't look at specifics. You can ask a general question if  you ha ve.  
Shravan Shah:  No, I'm asking a general , in terms of the market share how the CCI looks at ? Any percentage , 
what are the broad criteria that the CCI looks at  post the acquisitions , 10% -15%-20% market 
share should not be there ? 
Atul Daga:  I think that I  will not be able to answer.  
Shravan Shah:  Third , just trying to understand in terms of the second phase of expansion 22.6 . How much 
broadly from that we would be commissioning in FY24 ?  
Atul Daga:  May be 3 or 4 million.  
Shravan Shah:  And rest  mostly by March of FY25?  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 16 of 17 
Atul Daga:  FY25 and some might be gone  into ‘26 also, fiscal ‘26 which means first -half of ‘25 -26. 
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Sanjay Nandi from  Ratnabali Investment s.  
Sanjay Nandi:  We have seen some spike in  the employee cost in this particular quarter. Can you please throw 
some colors on that?  
Atul Daga:  Annual increments. We follow an increment cycle from  July, 1st July. Our increments are 
evaluation done in March , given effect in July . So, July -June is ou r annual cycle.  
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Amit Murarka from  Axis Capital.   
Amit Murarka:  Just on white cement and put ty like the RAK acquisition that you had made. That is supposed to 
kind of flow in additional volumes into India. By when is that expected to start?  
Atul Daga:  This quarter they will start. October -December quarter should be starting volumes. For packing  
material has already reached the re, quality et c. all settled , logistics tied -up. This quarter shipment 
should happen , start happening.  
Amit Murarka:  The exports to Sri Lanka , is there anything happening or is completely stopped ?  
Atul Daga:  Very marginal  so only in case we have secured rupee  LC available which is opening up against 
those LC s only we are exporting. Exports have dropped down dramatically from maybe a 1-1.5 
lakh tons  per month s give or take 1-1.5 lakhs  to 30 ,000 or 40 ,000 two shipments only  and one 
more reason I'm glad you asked about Sri Lanka . Our working capital  so we have close to 200 
crores due from our Sri Lanka operation. The money is lying there. Government is releasing 
money gradually. We receive d about 40 crores last quarter in the reported quarter  and I believe 
that money will get regular ized in the next two quarters or three quarters.  
Amit Murarka:  What was the export vol ume in Q 2, absolute number ?  
Atul Daga:  1 lakh tons.  
Moderator : The next  question is from the line of Ritesh from  Investec.   
Ritesh:  First is if I heard it right you indicated on TPP we have 5% petcoke and 56% local coal. My 
question is why petco ke is at o nly 5% ? I remember like 2017 something there was a court 
judgment  which had…  
Atul Daga:  What was the court judgment?  
Ritesh:  I think it did re strict the usage of petcoke  when it comes to power plants but for kilns it  was 
allowed because of the quality of limestone and limestone saturation factor. Question is , can this 
number of 5% petcoke when it comes to TPP increase and can it be a cost saving lever?  

 UltraTech Cement Limited  
October 19, 2022  
 
 Page 17 of 17 
Atul Daga:  In TPP we use domestic coal which is far more cheaper.  
Ritesh:  Right but you had said 29% is imported and 5% is petcoke . So, 29% imported versus 5% petcoke. 
Is there room for substitution?  
Atul Daga:  We are, there is one in the NCR and the related market s petco ke is not allowed in power plants 
that you are aware. And its opportunity , wherever we find financial economics working in favor 
of petco ke we use that.  
Ritesh:  If my memory serves me right it's only in three states where in petco ke in TPP is not allowed ?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, you're right. NCR, which is that,  is the market.  
Ritesh:  Can this number mo ve up and surprise ?  
Atul Daga:  Could be. I don’t have a ready answer actually Ritesh.  
Ritesh:  Second quick question , is there some changes which one can expect on the discounting trends 
in the marketplace? Is that some probability over he re? 
Atul Daga:  I have no idea about that.  
Moderator : Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen that was the last question for today. On behalf of UltraTech 
Cement  that concludes this conference. We thank you all for joining us and you may now 
disconnect your lines.   

Page 1 of 19 
  
 
 
            
 
“Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
Q2 FY '2 4 Earnings Conference Call ” 
October 19, 202 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. ATUL DAGA  – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF 
FINANCIAL OFFICER  
 MR. K.C. JHANWAR – MANAGING  DIRECTOR  
 


      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 2 of 19 
 
Moderator:  Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to the UltraTech Cement Limited Q2 FY '24 
Earnings Conference Call. We must remind you that the discussion on today's call may include 
certain forward -looking statements and must be, therefor e, viewed in conjunction with the risk 
that the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify or 
revise any forward -looking statement on the basis of any subsequent development, information 
or events or otherwise.  
As a remi nder all participant lines will be in the listen mode. There will be an opportunity for 
you to ask questions after the presentation concludes. Should need assistance during the 
conference, please signal an operator by pressing star and then zero on your to uchtone phone. 
Please note that this conference is being recorded. I now hand the conference over to Mr. Atul 
Daga, Executive Director and CFO of the company. Thank you, and over to you, Mr. Daga.  
Atul Daga : Good afternoon, good evening, everybody. Welcome  to the second quarter earnings call for 
UltraTech. With me, I have my Managing Director, Mr. K.C. Jhanwar and my colleagues from 
the finance team so that any questions that arise can be answered fully.  
 Let me start by saying -- talk a bigger picture abou t cement as an industry. I personally believe 
cement is not for the weak -kneed people. Go anywhere in the world, it's a long -term story, 
connected to the fundamentals of the economy. So if you're looking for a growth story, then 
emer ging markets cannot be ignored.  
And within emerging markets, I'm sure everybody agrees that India is the fastest -growing large 
sized economy. And then that's the place to invest in. If you're investing in India, then 
infrastructure sector is surely generating growth, which is li kely to see investments. And for 
infrastructure, cement is one of the key pillars for growth.  
 Let me now jump on to the burning topic of costs and how it has been impacting the industry. 
When Russia war started, coal shot up to close to $400, pet coke was  close to $260. We have 
seen ups and downs from there. And it is not prudent according to me to annualize the cost from 
a given date, input costs are never stat ic, every day can be different.  
Pet coke cost floated with about $100 mark for a very brief period in the first week of June or 
somewhere around that time, June or July and now have climbed very rapidly, they climb back 
to $140. Whoever was able to book shipments in that period will probably hav e a short 
honeymoon in Q3.  
 Besides coal or power and fuel is not the only cost driver. Second quarter is always a very high 
maintenance cost quarter for cement industry. At UltraTech, we had almost 24 kil ns under 
maintenance shutdown, which is a routine  operating parameter. Besides we are still celebrating 
our 100 million tons of production dispatch in sales in one financial year, which happened last 
year, for which a one -off special bonus was given to the employees amounting to almost INR40 
crore s. I thought of calling it out as a one -off. And we have to wait and watch how crude behaves 
given the global scenarios that are emerging.  
 Similarly, selling prices  are also keep fluctuating. With the recent price hikes that have 
happened, it's definitely  a good thing to have on the P&L, but I believe it should be a wait -and-

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 3 of 19 
 
watch game. Given the pressure on costs, we expect that the prices should hold unless some 
companies are not able to sell at a higher price and they start behaving  differently in the m arkets.  
As of today, so beyond the quarter ended September, I would definitely want to highlight how 
the prices are shaping up with -- comparing to the exit of June, all India prices are up 7% to 8%, 
which was about 3% to 4% or thereabouts from June exit to September exit. But if you were to 
look at the quarter average prices, quarter average prices were marginally up 1% or 1.5% over 
the previous quarter. Each region has been experiencing good traction in prices.  
And as we speak, currently, all the prices  are holding steady. We have seen price increases now 
depending upon the comparative period, I am looking at comparison over June exit. The prices 
in East are almost up 7%, 8%. Similarly, Maharashtra is up 7%, 8%, South would be maybe 5%, 
6%, North again, 6%, 7%, Central is perhaps flat at the moment.  
 Let me now quickly touch upon our expansion. The 22.6 million tons capacity expansion, which 
is in progress. Work is going on in full swing. We are confident of meeting our time lines. In 
addition to the 22.6  million tons of capacity that is ongoing, we are adding 3 more slag mills 
totaling to 1.8 million tons, which will get commissioned alo ng with this 22.6 million tons.  
So effectively, the second phase of growth will be 24.4 million tons. At the end of this  second 
phase of growth, we should be reaching 159.65 million tons of capacity in India, the target is, 
let's say, June '25, plus/minus. But as we start commissioning projects there we will gradually 
keep commissioning projects one after the other and we w ill update you closer to the date of 
commissioning. As I already mentioned, most of the locations are tracking very well on 
execution.  
 During this quarter, which is very visible with the kind of cash spend that we hav e had. We have 
spent almost INR 2,545 c rores on capex . A large portion of that capex was towards our expansion 
programs. In addition to that, upwards of INR600 crores was spent on working capital. We 
consciously build inventories of fuel given the short window that was a vailable where prices 
were low.  
We expect to bring down our fuel stocks back to normal levels of 45 days of inventories by the 
end of March '24. We continue to remain negative in spite of bulking up our working capital. 
We continue to remain negative working capital company. Our net debt at the end of this quarter 
had risen to INR4,917 crores from the previous quarter. This is the consolidated number. But 
this is as per plan, and we are not really concerned about it.  
 We will be able to push our net debt down further as we progres s into the season time for cement 
industry beginning this quarter. You would have seen that we have grown 15% in domestic 
volumes, along with international volumes, the effective growth is close to 16%. This is in spite 
erratic monsoons playing hav oc in di fferent parts of the country, disrupting smoother 
movements of material.  
 I want to again call out the cement lea d that we have achieved, we have achieved about 403 
kilometers of lead. And the secondary lead, which is from our warehouse or rail hedge to th e 
customer is dropped to about 40 kilometers only. This clearly shows our capability and ability 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 4 of 19 
 
to serve our customers, which is supported by -- at nearly 1,100 warehouses, 280 railway sidings 
as also 52% of our dispatches are directly to our customers wi thout having any stoppage in 
between.  
The commentary will be incomplete if we don't talk about environment issues. Some people do 
get concerned about cement sector because of its high emission norms. Well, India needs -- as I 
said in the beginning, Indian needs infrastructure,  which needs cement and cement 
manufacturing as of now is still with limestone and fossil fuel and fossil fuel remain to be the 
main source of fuel in the country.  
So there will be emissions. It is important to keep in mind how we are investing behind the 
reduction of carbon emission and continuously progressing on that part. But as we speak, our 
various investment programs that are in place will take us to 60% non -fossil fuel energy by the 
time we complete our current phase of growth.  
You would have already heard India is bidding for 2036 Olympics. That sounds fabulous for the 
country and it's music for our years. With that, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I hand it 
over for questions.  
Moderator:  Thank you very much. We will now be gin the question -and-answer session. The first question 
is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital. Please go ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  So on the expansion program, I think earlier you had mentioned in the last call that the next 
phase of expansion is b eing worked on. So is there any progress or by when can we expect a 
formal announcement of the same?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. So it's almost stitched up. We will put up to our Board and come back to you within the 
end -- before the end of this calendar year.  
Amit M urarka:  Okay. And this is in line with that 185 million to 200 million ton capacity...  
Atul Daga:  Yes, absolutely, absolutely. In fact, our Chairman had already put down his vision, articulated 
the game plan of doing 200 million tons of cement in India, we  are on -- very much on course 
for that.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. And the first half, capex seems to be a bit high versus the guidance. I think guidance was 
INR6,000 crores to INR7,000 crores, but we seem to have spent about INR4.5 crores  already. 
So... 
Atul Da ga: True. Now so again, don't annualize it. My guess is while there's a bulk of spending has happened 
now, we might not have a similar level of spending, but INR6,000 crores to INR7,000 crores for 
the year should be the capex spend. And in case the team is  able to race ahead, we are more than 
happy because the faster we complete the projects the faster we'll be able to bring cement to the 
market.  
Amit Murarka:  Sure. Got it. And any guidance on fuel cost for subsequent quarters?  
Atul Daga:  As of now -- so if I look at it, this quarter, the consumption price was $138.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 5 of 19 
 
K C Jhanwar:  Pet coke.  
Atul Daga:  Pet coke. Pet coke was $138, sorry. So -- but pet coke is only 39% for us. As of now, October, 
December quarter should also see southbound movement in prices of fuel.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. Just to add upon, I'm K.C. Jhanwar here. The fuel market is very volatile, in particular 
because of these geopolitical disturbances, etcetera. So let's see how it moves forward, if the 
geopolitical environment gets stabili zed, then there won't be much of movement here and there. 
Otherwise, it's difficult to predict actually.  
Atul Daga:  So Amit, to be specific, I think we have put it down in the presentation itself, the effective 
consumption cost -- blended fuel con sumption  cost was $162 against $178 and pet coke was 
$138.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Rashi Chopra from Citigroup. Please go ahead.  
Rashi Chopra:  Just on the pricing, you've given the change in trends versus the June exit, but where  are you 
versus the average of the quarter that you just reported?  
Atul Daga:  Average of which quarter you're asking about?  
Rashi Chopra:  The July to September quarter, where are spot prices versus that?  
Atul Daga:  So from July to September average about 3 % up. No, one second. Average, it was 5% up. So in 
fact, I have indicated that Rashi, in the presentation also slide 18, it's about 5% up. That's October 
'23. 
Rashi Chopra:  Correct. No just reasonably, is it possible to give that split the way...  
Atul Daga : It's difficult, let me work it out and I can share it separately.  
Rashi Chopra:  Okay. Sure. Then what was the proportion of trade volume this quarter?  
Atul Daga:  67% trade.  
Rashi Chopra:  All right. Just in the 2.5 million tons capacity that you've added in this quarter, 1.3 million was 
in West Bengal in July. Where is the remaining 1.2 annually?  
Atul Daga:  So that was part of the debottlenecking?  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. 
Atul Daga:  Yes. So we had announced that 4 million tons debottlenecking out of that 1.2 mill ion was the 
Magdalla grinding unit in Gujarat.  
Rashi Chopra:  Okay. So now you are less to 3 million tons of debottlenecking this year?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, 2.8 million to be precise.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 6 of 19 
 
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Secu rities. Please go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Yes. Congratulations on the good set of numbers. Sir, first question was on the fuel cost. So you 
already gave numbers that blended as 162 and pet coke is around 138 and current spot rates, as 
you understand, pet cok e could be more like 130, 135 and imported coal also around 140, 145 
range. Could you share what was the average imported coal cost for Q2? If I'm not wrong, it 
could be more like $180. I'm just trying to do some backward...  
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes, you're rig ht. Hang on, about $181.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Right. So versus that, if the current spot rate is still at 140, 145 it could still mean at least INR100 
per ton saving in fuel cost in the coming quarter?  
Atul Daga:  No, no, which quarter would you estimate that?  
Navin Sahadeo:  December, because you would have inventory and 180...  
Atul Daga:  Navin, let me explain the concept of the spot prices. When the spot prices are being quoted, let's 
say, 19th of October, they are for 2 months ahead of -- loading is 2 months ahe ad. That's point 
number one. Those are spot prices. Then give or take 45 days to 60 days of shipping time, 
clearing time, reaching the plant. You have -- I didn't put the slide or I didn't mention it, but I'm 
carrying inventory of 60 days as at the end of this quarter. So the spot price that we talk about 
will not come into consumption before March '24.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Agreed, but sir, by that logic, I would actually want to pencil in a much higher savings because 
in mid -July or in month of July, the importe d rates were well below $120 also.  
Atul Daga:  Okay. I will tell you, typical of stock market, if you put a buy order for 10% of our company, 
what will happen to that stock price? It will go through the roof, all right. No, no, on a serious 
note. Pet coke market is a very, very small market. Today, if anybody steps out to buy bulk 
quantities, the prices will get shot up. So it is identical the way the market behaves, pure 
phenomena of demand and supply. So please don't annualize because that's the mess age which 
I tried to give in the beginning of the call, don't annualize the cost or any number.  
Navin Sahadeo:  No, appreciate it, then I'll -- let me just put it simply, how much more savings can we expect in 
the coming 1 or 2 quarters?  
Atul Daga:  Good que stion. Next question, please. So I know, I'm not able to reveal that on the call, Navin. 
So this is especially for -- the call is for this earnings performance. On a serious note, not to – to 
-- not to leave Navin unsatisfied, the cost curve is moving sout hwards. Yes, next question please.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Indrajit Agarwal from CLSA. Please go ahead.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  I'm just trying to bridge the net debt trajectory from June quarter. So we had about INR2,469 
crores, last quarter and now we have about INR4,920 crores. I understand that capex and 
working capital is taken together with having INR3,100 crores kind of outflow and my back of 
the envelope calculation...  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 7 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  Sorry, plus the dividend gets paid out 1 00% in this quarter. That is close to INR1,100 crores. 
Yes. 
Indrajit Agarwal:  All right. Sir that was missed. And just to remind us again, how much inventory we are carrying 
right now versus 45 days average?  
Atul Daga:  60 days.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  And mix-wise, it is still the same, the inventory that we are carrying that to -- in the sense...  
Atul Daga:  Yes. So the consumption of pet coke from 40% could go up to 50%. It would be range bound 
like this.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Okay. And on a landed basis, pet coke, how does it fare versus coal today?  
Atul Daga:  On a landed basis, effectively pet coke becomes cheaper. Certainly, the traded price is also 
economical.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes, but the gap is not too big actually, because the pet coke prices they are now -- now pet coke 
is getting traded around $140 or so actually. So now not a big gap actually. The coal is also at 
$140, but yes, some weightage of calorific value. That's why the effect to price of pet coke is 
still marginally cheaper.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sure.  And my last question is based on your experience, what moves pet coke more? Is it crude 
prices or on the demand side dynamic?  
Atul Daga:  Demand, supply.  
K C Jhanwar:  Demand, supply, by and large, it's nothing to do with the crude prices. It's purely, as A tul said..  
Atul Daga:  Demand supply.  
K C Jhanwar:  It's demand supply...  
Atul Daga:  Next question please.  
Moderator:  The next question is from Jashandeep Singh from Nomura. Please go ahead. Mr. Jashandeep 
Singh from Nomura, you may go ahead with your questi on. 
Atul Daga:  I think, he is dropped out. Take the next question.  
Moderator:  Yes we move to the next question. The next question is from the line of Satyadeep Jain from 
Ambit Capital. Please go ahead.  
Satyadeep Jain:  First question on the capacity expansi on. So Daga, you mentioned achieving 160 million tons, 
give or take by June '25. So beyond that, the next leg of expansion should we assume that the 
company will start committing to it after this expansion is complete, so the -- whatever, 25 
million tons, 30 million tons capacity comes 24 months odd from there? Or is there a potential 
to maybe start working on it relatively soon so that it doesn't get so staggered. And tied to that 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 8 of 19 
 
would be how much more debottlenecking capacity potential could be there in the existing 
capacity base?  
Atul Daga:  Okay. To your first question, we will not wait to complete so that -- the reason being that we 
should have a continuous supply of capacity available, given the high growth trajectory that we 
are seeing in the Indian m arket. So we will definitely start work on the second phase of -- third 
phase of growth very soon. The moment we get a nod from our Boards, which as I mentioned, 
we will be presenting before the end of this calendar.  
As for debottlenecking, I think as we p rogress, if we unearth something which we'll be more 
than happy to pick -up on the side. As of now, on the existing projects, that are ongoing, nothing 
significant has been identified.  
Satyadeep Jain:  Okay. Thank you. Secondly, on the Eastern market, you mentioned rains and different factors 
led to slow down, any ballpark estimate on in your estimate, what could have been the industry 
volume growth for India as a whole and maybe East could have been maybe low single digit and 
given that now the quarter has  ended and going into October, have you seen maybe a recovery 
to more normal volumes in line with rest of year?  
Atul Daga:  East continues to be slow and our expectation is maybe 4% to 5% growth is what we'll see for 
the industry in the Eastern corridor aga inst which we have grown better than that. And all India, 
again, average expectation from the basis -- on the basis of whatever we have seen in the 
marketplace, industry should show a growth of close to 9% or 11%, maybe double -digit growth, 
yes. 
Satyadeep Jain:  Okay. Just one housekeeping question on this slag contract is signed with sale. Any maybe 
pricing indication? Is it much below spot pricing or kind of pricing arrangement have you had 
for this slag contract?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, why do you want to know so  many details? If you look at the EBITDA performance next 
quarter.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec. Please go ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  I'll just pick up from Satya's question. Sir, what is the sort of cost i nflation that you are looking 
for both fly ash as well as slag? And do we have any long -term contracts on a percentage basis, 
which are indexed to WPI, something like that sort which can ease up on fly ash and slag for us.  
Atul Daga:  So I'll take the secon d question first. The contracts are normally not more than a year. Nobody 
does longer period contracts. And they are not linked to WPI. These are, again, negotiated 
contracts. If I were to deep dive, again, it's a demand and supply phenomena, depending upo n 
the appetite in the market and availability, how the prices perform.  
K C Jhanwar:  Generally, the price discovery is used through the tender process or e -bidding kind of thing. So 
that's the way generally it happens.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 9 of 19 
 
Ritesh Shah:  Right. But sir, has the s lag inflation been quite steep in recent times, basically, what we picked 
up is it is just more expenses than clinker costing.  
Atul Daga:  Ritesh, the reason we called out slag and fly ash because these are the two biggest raw material 
cost items.  
Ritesh Sh ah: Okay, that's fine. Sir, secondly, Yes. Sir, then you indicated we have around 60 days of 
inventory. Is it possible for you to qualify how much of the average cost over that?  
Atul Daga:  Cost of holding?  
Ritesh Shah:  Yes, sir, inventory costs?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, so it's around $162.  
Ritesh Shah:  That's the average cost of inventory. This is on a blended basis...  
Atul Daga:  Blended basis, yes.  
Ritesh Shah:  $162. Hello?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Ritesh Shah:  Yes, sir, that was for the quarter, I'm saying quarter end basis…  
Atul Daga:  Yes. It's almost the same, exit is almost the same.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. That gives a fair indication, this is useful. Sir, thirdly, how are you looking at other Birla 
Group assets I'm asking a question more from an inorganic GA standpoint,  there has been a lot 
of news flow around a lot of assets. How does the group approach it? What's the thought process 
over here, sir? There are companies which have some problems on the balance sheet side as 
well. So is the company open to say something li ke a preferential or the idea is to go for an entire 
asset or we won't be even open to it. How should I understand this?  
Atul Daga:  Ritesh, I am so ground in UltraTech, so much things to do that I don't get time to see what is 
happening in other group comp anies. I really don't know -- I don't have any answer for your 
question.  
Ritesh Shah:  Fine. Sir, let me put it the other way around, sir, if there are any assets available, is there any 
particular region which will be of more interest, let's say something in Central India, Southern 
India, will we look at it, or it's a pass?  
Atul Daga:  We will, yes. So one thing very clear is that almost entire geography of the country from a 
regulatory perspective, I think we can still acquire capacities. That should not be  a constraint 
barring perhaps east which -- because the size of assets themselves are significantly large. So 
then the next point is we keep on evaluating assets and it has to give us a profitable growth 
opportunities. Then only it would make sense for us.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 10 of 19 
 
Ritesh Shah:  Sure. And sir, last question, if you could provide some color on the white cement and putty 
markets, that would be great. And there is something called Birla Pivot but I'm not very sure 
whether it falls under our umbrella or any other Birla G roup entities? Last two questions.  
Atul Daga:  Birla Pivot is Grasim. They are doing something over there. So you'll have to ask them. White 
cement and putty market prices were subdued. We've seen volume growth happening the RAK, 
we have been getting volume s from RAK White also, it has been rebranded as Birla White and 
consolidated, we are seeing volume improvement.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Rajesh Ravi from HDFC Securities. Please go 
ahead.  
Rajesh Ravi:  Yes. My question pertains to, first, on the regional demand and utilization in Q2. So could you 
throw some color you mentioned the East growth would be to the tune of 4% to 5% and on a 
pan-India versus 9% to 11%. So which market grew more than 10%, 11% and also re asonable 
utilization?  
Atul Daga:  Very difficult to quantify individual regions. If we are growing 15% this quarter, UltraTech has 
grown 15% this quarter with 75% capacity utilization on 132 million tons. That gives you a fair 
perspective that it's fairly b alanced. There would be sparks of high growth somewhere or 
mediocre growth elsewhere.  
Rajesh Ravi:  And this demand any flavor, which market or by regional basis, which market grew at what rate?  
Atul Daga:  I just said I think 15% is what we have grown, prac tically all markets are doing well.  
Rajesh Ravi:  Okay. And sir, on the fuel cost you -- on a per kilo cal the fuel costing was how much in Q2? Is 
it this...  
Atul Daga:  INR2,184.  
Rajesh Ravi:  INR2,184, okay. Okay. INR2,184 there is a slight cool -off. Sir, y ou mentioned this 
debottlenecking, you did 1.2 million tons at Magdalla.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, please.  
Rajesh Ravi:  Okay. So from 0.7 -odd million tons it is now close to 2 million tons. And which are the other 
places where this debottlenecking would happen?  
Atul  Daga:  There are a few opportunities which we are tracking. We will come back once everything is 
done.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Rahul Gupta from Morgan Stanley. Please go 
ahead.  
Rahul Gupta:  Very good numbers, Mr. Daga. T here have been a lot of questions around fuel cost, but I don't 
want to bore you. I just want to understand one thing. The company has seen around 20% 
deflation on fuel cost over the last three quarters, right? I mean from $200 to $162. If I do just 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 11 of 19 
 
back o f the envelope math, is it fair to say that we would see another 7% to 8% decline and that 
would be the end of it given where current prices are. I know you can't comment on how prices 
would move on a daily basis, but given the inventory levels?  
Atul Daga:  So even if I took $10 or $11 reduction seems to be possible, but very difficult to forecast. As we 
saw, $100 remained for a very brief period, shot up to $140, $135. But yes, if everything remains 
steady no more global upsets, then yes, you could see redu ction of $10.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Pratik Rathi from Macquarie. Please go ahead.  
Atul Daga:  Take a next question.  
Moderator:  So we'll move to the next question. The next question is from Raghav Maheshwari from Asian 
Market Securities. Please go ahead.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Sir, congratulations on a good set of volume growth, firstly, Sir, my question is for the pet coke 
and the fuel side. You mentioned in your presentation, your blended consumption at $162, where 
you have  mentioned that pet coke is particularly $138, is it right?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, sir.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Sir, and the users of the pet coke is the 39% of the total mix -- fuel mix, this 39% is for the -- 
only for the kiln or the entire TPP level also?  
Atul Daga : Let's talk about kiln only and pet coke goes was only in kiln.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  No. The 39% is only for the kiln, right?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, please.  
K C Jhanwar:  Sir, n ow pet coke is not allowed to be used in thermal power plant legally.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Yes. Sir, my question is from that why -- what was the restriction for? We are just using 39%. 
Because is the availability side issue or it's the kiln specifications efficiency issue?  
Atul Daga:  No, it's more about availability.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Okay, s ir. And sir, what is the status for the pet coke, it's particularly available at a domestic 
side? Or is it mostly the imported only?  
K C Jhanwar:  Imported, mostly imported.  
Atul Daga:  Pet coke is imported.  
Raghav Maheshwari:  Okay, sir. Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from Kotak Securities. 
Please go ahead.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 12 of 19 
 
Sumangal Nevatia:  Yes. Good afternoon, sir.  Just two quick clarifications. One is this 160 million to 200 million 
tons of aspiration, which  we have. Over what period are we looking at? What would be the end 
year, if you could just clarify that.  
Atul Daga:  I'm sorry, I missed your question. Can you repeat, please?  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Sir, this capacity expansion in the next phase, Phase III, whi ch you are talking or which you are 
evaluating from 160 million to 200 million tons, what is the end year for that, over which period 
are we kind of working on?  
Atul Daga:  Till '28. The next phase of growth will not take us to 200 million tons. Again, so w e will do in 
blocks of 20 plus minus 20 million tons. So that from -- so like '20 -- mid-'25, mid -calendar '25, 
we will reach 160 million. I'm just using a rounded number, then again, a 20 million tons, which 
will get completed by '27 -- calendar '27. So t hat will take up to 180 million tons.  
And then again, before we complete, I'm sure we will be ready for the next phase of growth. So 
every year, we will keep on looking at balancing our capacity book in line with the growing 
market.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Under stood. And versus say few years back, given the growth and the market share gain which 
we are seeing, some front -loading of expansion plan is expected, right? Can we safely assume 
that?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, absolutely.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Got it. And just o ne, sir, last clarification. The employee cost and other expense. Are there 
any one -off or is just purely seasonal? And then it should normalize?  
Atul Daga:  In fact, I mentioned about it close to INR70 crores would be one -off. 
K C Jhanwar:  Yes, INR40 crore s plus some other bonus, yes.  
Atul Daga:  Close to INR70 crores is our one -off cost.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  So is it noncash or it's cash but not likely...  
Atul Daga:  Cash.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Got it. All right. Thank you so much, sir and all the best.  
Moder ator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Jashandeep Singh from Nomura. Please go 
ahead.  
Jashandeep Chadha:  Hello. Hi, sir. Thank you for the opportunity.  Just wanted to understand from you, how you are 
seeing the rural demand. And also, if I 'm not wrong, last quarter, we mentioned some market 
share -- marginal market share loss in South. So have we been able to recoup that? My first 
question.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 13 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  The rural market for us has been growing.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. The rural market is still robu st. Actually, there is -- we have not seen the kind of probably 
-- FMCG companies are probably having the problem. But by and large, it is still robust because 
in rural also, there is a lot of infrastructure and local body work, etcetera. So still, I would  say, 
rural market is not impacted, marginally here and there, there would be some pockets maybe.  
Atul Daga:  So to add further to what Mr. Jhanwar said, if you look at Slide seven, I have called it out. rural 
sales were at 63% of trade grew 15% for the qua rter. So that's how rural markets are performing. 
And again, a bigger picture, the definition of rural markets is continuously evolving, rural is no 
longer the old rural which you are -- which is pure agri as Jhanwarji was mentioning, there's a 
lot of infr astructure growth happening in the so -called rural market as well.  
Jashandeep Chadha:  All r ight, sir. And on the South India market, sir, that you mentioned last quarter, that margin 
loss was there, this quarter, have we been able to regain that? Sir, in t he last quarter, we 
mentioned we lost certain marginal market share in the South India. So whether we will be able 
to regain that?  
Atul Daga:  No, I don't think so.  
K C Jhanwar:  I think, we don't recollect having said...  
Atul Daga:  Nothing like that.  
Jashandeep Chadha:  Okay. No issue, sir. And sir, on the linkage coal, what will be the percentage of domestic coal, 
if you can share that?  
Atul Daga:  Domestic coal is about 6%.  
Jashandeep Chadha:  6%. Okay...  
Atul Daga:  In kiln, I'm talking about in kiln.  
Jashandeep Chadha:  In kiln. Right, sir. And sir, if I can squeeze one more. Since we are now moving towards 200 
million tons by FY '28 -'30, just wanted to understand, if there is also enough cash balance and 
the company has become one of the biggest -- it is one of the biggest cement manufacturers. So 
is there any related sector also that the company is evaluating like we have some exposure to the 
chemical building. So I just wanted to understand, whether the management is thinking on that 
line as well?  
Atul  Daga:  If you look at cement as a sector in India, what is the size of cement ? 385 million tons? In billion 
dollars, it's $30 billion. So looking at the size of cement business in the country, there is no other 
adjacency, which looks meaningful. And we wi ll not do any diversification.  
K C Jhanwar:  Unrelated activities.  
Atul Daga:  So cement is -- I was saying $30 billion, it's actually $35 billion worth of market. There's no 
other adjacent business. Now whether it is tiles, whether it is -- whatever else yo u will have in 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 14 of 19 
 
mind paver blocks, tiles or sanitary ware, etcetera, nothing is so big. We are already present in 
White cement, RMC, we're doing pretty well, growing very rapidly. Gr ey cement remains our 
forte.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is fro m the line of Raj Kiran Gandhi from SBI Mutual Fund. 
Please go ahead.  
Raj Gandhi:  Hi, thanks for the opportunity.  Sir, just here, if I were to go by saying that you will reach 200 
million tons by 2030, as you mentioned, it will translate to a CAGR FY '23 t o then of about 
slightly over 7%, which seems to be a bit lower versus what your peers have guided in their 
strategy. So just any comments on that? And also in light of the bunch of capacities that we are 
seeing in the ordering and also, how do you see the  pricing from a medium -term basis?  
Atul Daga:  So what is your question, whether our growth plans are inaccurate or not enough? Or I didn't get 
your more point of the question?  
Raj Gandhi:  In terms of your pure growth path, which they have guided being sign ificantly higher versus the 
capacity growth guided by you. So in that sense, how do you read that? So that was one.  
Atul Daga:  No. So to answer that, you'll ask -- either have to ask them on what their plans are. I really – I 
am not in a position to commen t on their plans. When we give out our plans, it will be with nuts, 
screws and bolts, everything stitched together. You will know, where our capacity is coming, 
how much capacity is coming unlike some figment of imagination.  
So when we are announcing our e xpansion plans, they are very rock solid with an underlying 
economic hypothesis basis, we understand the Indian market very well. We know how Indian 
market will grow, where it will grow. Accordingly, we will add capacity.  
K C Jhanwar:  And more so it's a re volving one.  
Raj Gandhi:  Sure. Okay.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from Shravan Shah from Dolat Capital. Please go ahead.  
Shravan Shah:  Yes, just to clarify, INR70 crores extra one -off, you said this is only for the staff cost?  
Atul Daga:  Staff cost and others, yes, which are one -offs. 
Shravan Shah:  For staff costs, how much one can think of one -off so from next quarter, how much one can 
think of too lower?  
Atul Daga:  INR40 crores, INR50 crores will be out of it.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And rest IN R20 crores, INR30 crores would be the maintenance cost, extra…  
Atul Daga:  Yes, extra maintenance costs, yes.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 15 of 19 
 
Shravan Shah:  Okay. Got it. Second, on the pricing, sir, you mentioned that 5% current prices are higher versus 
the 2Q average. In terms of the non trade also, the similar trend one can look at?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, please.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. That's great. Second, in terms of the fuel mix, you said 6% is the domestic coal. So broadly 
39% was pet coke. So how much was entire coal imported, domestic, everything coal was 
evolved how much?  
Atul Daga:  51% imported coal, pet coke 39%, alternate fuel 4%.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And sir, on the green share particularly, both WHRS and Solar. So last time we have 
talked about to reach a 1,250 megawatt by  March '25 or maybe 1Q when we will complete this 
22.6%. So -- not -- 22.4% will complete. So broadly, how one look at from current by March 
'24, by March '25, how much one can look at in terms of the increase in both capacity and the 
green share, so curre ntly 22%, so how one can look at?  
So ultimately, what I'm trying to understand is by FY '26, my broad calculation says, we should 
see at least incrementally INR60, INR70 per tons kind of a savings from -- only from the 
incremental green capacity that we ar e adding?  
Atul Daga:  So I don't want to quantify that saving because the rates also not for renewable energy, but for 
other activities, rates could change. But yes, in terms of percentages, we have reached 22%. We 
should be reaching more than 50% or actual ly 60% by '25, '26.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. So currently, broadly, is it fair that the grid cost would be a INR6.5 or INR7 and the solar 
cost for us would be INR2.5.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. The grid rate is varying from INR6 to INR8 yes, it is from...  
Atul Daga:  And renewable energy is not INR2. It's INR4.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. That -- differentially it is not more than INR2 actually because there are a lot of government 
levy and wheeling charges and some cross subsidy in certain.  
Atul Daga:  See the generation costs, you  are right but that is at the generation point from there for 
transmission, wheeling charges, et cetera, loaded, it comes close to INR4. It goes to close to 7 
bucks.  
Shravan Shah:  And then in terms of the lead distance, it's great that it is slowly reducing  so 406 now. So by 
when we complete this 24.4  million tons , how much one can think of 30, 40 -kilometer further 
reduction is possible? Structurally, I'm saying.  
Atul Daga:  It won't be so much, but yes, it should be downward only.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. Okay. O kay. And then broadly, in terms of the -- this out of this -- the next phase, by 1H 
of FY'25, is it fair seven million to nine million ton come up by next September and rest maybe 
by March or June.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 16 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  Yes, possible.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And in terms  of the clinker also, roughly 15 million tons would be the clinker to support 
this expansion?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, we are already clinker add.  
K C Jhanwar:  Yes. 
Shravan Shah:  Okay. Great and thank you and all the best.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is  from the line of Pathanjali Srinivasan from Sundaram Mutual 
Fund. Please go ahead.  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  Yes. So my first question is on what is our margin as being like for the RMC and white cement 
business because it looks like we've done much better t here compared to the previous quarters. 
Correct me if I'm wrong.  
Atul Daga:  So margins for RMC are -- RMC is an incremental margin business, 3% to 4% is their margin 
that we can...  
K C Jhanwar:  5% to 6% margin. 4%.  
Atul Daga:  4% margin is what we have now,  incremental margin. So we do a transfer pricing from cement 
to RMC.  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  Okay, sir. And one more thing. The realization wise, have we taken any price hikes towards the 
end of the quarter and what has been the decision from our end for th is because a lot of news 
about companies taking price hikes came in?  
Atul Daga:  I think you were not there in the beginning of the call. We have taken price -- I think September, 
mid-September onwards we started seeing price improvement happening across the country.  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  So if you could just tell me what about closing price, sir even the last -- like the end of the month 
what price did you close at?  
Atul Daga:  There is nothing called as closing price, but each market and I don't k now which city you are in 
and if in Mumbai, the price in Andheri and price in Thane will be different. So difficult to say a 
closing price but if you want to look at increase in prices, 5% to 7% increase has already 
happened since June.  
Pathanjali Srinivas an: Okay. Okay, sir. Sure. Can I take it as maybe some realization from the previous quarter. It 
should be like 5%, 6% above that?  
Atul Daga:  In this quarter?  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  Yes. 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 17 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  Yes, in this quarter, obviously, if the prices hold, then you could see an improvement -- 
proportionate improvement.  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  Okay. No, I'm just trying to get the number quantified from you.  
Atul Daga:  And I'm not wanting to quantify it.  
Pathanjali Srinivasan:  Yes. Okay. Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securities. Please 
go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Yes. Thank you for the follow -up. Sir, you mentioned that Phase three is about to be announced 
by end of this calendar year, but you said that it will largely get completed in '27. So I'm just 
trying to understand because typically, any capex takes about two years or 2.5 years. So by that 
logic calendar year '24, '25. So maybe around '26 shouldn't that be a reasonable expectation? Or 
do you think there could be some greenfield sites, which could take much longer period?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, it's a mix. Now it will always be a greenfield brownfield mix and you were saying two to 
2.5 years, we have done a record of shooting greenfield further than 1 5 months also. So again, 
it depends on the site, there were advantages that we had on that site. There was a huge effort 
from the team, no doubt about that. So you cannot straightjacket us in any shape and form.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Fair point. And just one thin g to confirm. In the previous call, Q1 results you have talked about 
debottlenecking of a total of four million tons that was to come in FY'24.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, correct.  
Navin Sahadeo:  So is that -- so when you give these numbers as that the end capacity, I  don't think you are 
including that in the numbers.  
Atul Daga:  Now I'm including that when I said 159.65 million tons to end by -- at the end of this phase we 
have included that four million tons as also another 1.8 million tons of slag capacity that we -- I 
just mentioned in this call, we are going ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Understood. That’s really important. Thank you so much.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies. Please go ahead.  
Prateek Kumar:  Yes, sir, m y first question is on your pricing. So like we have -- let's say has taken a pricing 
action. Is there any impact on demand? Like we understand in September, there was -- demand 
was very soft, but has the increased pricing has the same impact on demand dur ing Q3 as well?  
Atul Daga:  Too early to say anything at this point in time with just 19 days. The biggest thing is prices are 
holding. There might be some markets somewhere, some slowdowns, some resistance, but I 
think that will pass over.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 18 of 19 
 
Prateek Kumar:  Okay. And in relation to like several states have announced election dates. So in relation to state 
elections or coming up of national election. Is there any moderation in working capital release 
from the state government or central government…  
Atul Daga:  According to me, the governments want to maximize execution of projects. So they should not 
-- that's a logical analysis that they should not hold back payments for all the contracts. 
Otherwise, it will impact progress of work. Hence, the working capital of  all the in fra company 
should remain strong as far as their receivables are concerned on government projects.  
Prateek Kumar:  And the last question on your other operating income that on a quarter -on-quarter basis seems 
to be slightly higher from around [INR225]  crores this  quarter. Again, a specific component one -
off there.  
Atul Daga:  Incentive. Then what was there extra. No, this -- how much is other operating income is INR281 
crores versus INR271 crores. Is that a significant difference.  
Prateek Kumar:  No. So we were looking at INR277 crores for this quarter versus for Q1. So we...  
Atul Daga:  So consolidated INR277 crores last year was INR297 crores. It has fallen.  
Prateek Kumar:  Okay. So I was just seeing quarter -on-quarter. Okay. Maybe we should see year-on-year.  
Atul Daga:  So quarter -on-quarter, yes, one or two incentives would have kicked in. Quarter -on-quarter, yes. 
Quarter -on-quarter, yes, but some additional incentives kicked in. Hello, Prateek.  
Prateek Kumar:  Sure. So these are my questions. Oka y, thank you.  
Atul Daga:  All right.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Vaibhav from PhillipCapital. Please go ahead.  
Vaibhav:  Thank you. Good evening, sir.  Sir I had only one question. You mentioned in earlier remarks 
that pricing can be very different in different parts of the cites itself or maybe different parts of 
the country. So like UltraTech was earlier contemplating and what we gather is that you were 
talking of one India price or one district pricing or one regional pricing . Can this be a reality for 
the industry in the long term that we have one city or one district or one region...  
Atul Daga:  We never said that.  
K C Jhanwar:  Vaibhav I think to best of our knowledge, we have never said that one price -- one country, one 
price because...  
Atul Daga:  It's not possible Vaibhav.  
K C Jhanwar:  It's not possible because you know the logistics issue, cost structure is different in different parts 
of the country. So to me, it looks difficult, some -- long back, somebody must have.  
Atul Daga:  No, no. No, no  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  October 19 , 2023  
 
Page 19 of 19 
 
K C Jhanwar:  But Atul is reconfirming that we have never talked about that.  
Atul Daga:  It cannot be, not logical Vaibhav. It's not possible.  
Vaibhav Agarwal:  Yes, sir, I know that sir, I understand, I understand I was just asking fro m a perspective, can we 
have one district or one city or one state, something like that uniform -- more uniformity in 
pricing rather than what is current, what I was asking actually so that was my question.  
Atul Daga:  So I will explain to you separately, that's a very small experiment, not all India pricing is one 
small geography.  
Vaibhav Agarwal:  Okay, sir. Understood, sir.  
Moderator:  We'll have to take that as the last question. On behalf of UltraTech Cement Limited, that 
concludes the confer ence. Thank you for joining us. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now 
disconnect your lines.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you so much.  
K C Jhanwar:  Thank you. Thank you.  

Page 1 of 19 
 4 
            
 
“Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
Q3 FY '2 4 Earnings Conference Call ” 
January 19 , 202 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. ATUL DAGA  – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF 
FINANCIAL OFFICER  
 MR. K.C. JHANWAR – MANAGING  DIRECTOR  
 
 
 


      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 2 of 19 
 
 
Moderator:  Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to the UltraTech Cement Limited Q3 FY'24 
Earnings Conference Call. We must remind you that the discussion on today's call may include 
certain forward -looking statements and must therefore be viewed in conjunction with the risk 
that the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify or 
revise any forward -looking statement on the basis of any subsequent development, information 
or events or otherwise.  
 As a reminder, all participant lines will be in the listen -only mode. There will be an opportunity 
for you to ask questions after the presentation concludes. Should you need assistance during this 
conference, please signal an operator by pressing star and then zero on your touchtone phone. 
Please note that this conference is being recorded.  
I now hand the conference over to Mr. Atul Daga, Executive Director and CFO of the company. 
Thank you, and over to you, sir.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you so much. Good evening, everybody, and welcome to the earnings call for quarter 
three  FY'24 for UltraTech Cement Limited. I will try and keep myself brief today and giving 
more opportunity for questions.  
 One of the most critical points which has been doing the rounds is about demand, whether there's 
a slowdown. We believe that this quarter, the industry should grow somewhere around 3% to 
4%, not more than that. And there are several reasons around it. And I should clarify it upfront 
before too many theories start doing the rounds.  
 Q3 is a festive season, which is generally subdued due to absenteeism of workers from project 
sites. And this has been a routine phenomenon year after year. Besides, a large country like ours 
will have something or the other going on. Such issues do hamper  the movement upwards. 
Specifically in this quarter, we had election in four major states, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, 
Telangana, Rajasthan.  
Fiscal challenges in the states of Bihar, Jharkand, West Bengal. There were floods in Tamil 
Nadu, cyclone in Andhra, sand and aggregate shortages in some parts of the country, NGT  
related construction banned in NCR since last quarter, which still continues and severe weather 
as we speak. We also had rains in Himachal, which impacted the movement of goods.  
 You must already be aware that the first two days of January were also impacted by the truckers' 
strike, which would impact not just us but entire economy per se. So one should not panic 
because of such situations. There have been news items like government orders have slowed 
down. I believe if so, it is only temporarily. India is fundamentally poised for a huge in fra-
growth, which will benefit all the cement players alike. The bigger point is that any projects  that 
has been initiated will go on, and we ar e seeing substantial construction activities across the 
country.  
 So long story short, fundamentals around growth of cement -- growth for cement in the country 
continue to be the same. We have already started seeing improvement in demand since the 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 3 of 19 
 
middle of December. Slower demand leads to correction in prices and most of the gains achieved 
initially have been surrendered while Q -o-Q and Y -o-Y, there has been an improvement in prices 
for the quarter, but towards the end of December exit, prices had corrected largely.  
 You are all monitoring daily prices, but I wish to reiterate that prices are always guided by 
demand. As and when demand improves, prices are bound to improve. It's a pure economic 
phenomenon.  
 Jumping on to our expansion plans. I think we are happy to tell you that all our expansion plans 
are on schedule, and in fact, some of them are ahead of schedule. Given the way we are seeing 
cement consumption going up in the country, we are quite satisfie d with the way our expansion 
plans are panning out. On the last announcement we made for 21.9 million tons  of capacity, 
which we call internally Phase 3 , orders have already been placed for critical technology items. 
Civil work has commenced on a few site s. We are confident that the plants will be commissioned 
as per schedule.  
 This year, our capex cash flow will exceed our initial plans, which we have outlined, and we 
will spend around INR9,000 crores. Next year, also, we could see our cash flows on capex being 
around INR9,000 crores. Working capital has taken up some opportunistic bets on purchase of 
coal and pet coke, because of which, our working capital is slightly extended.  
 Both of these elements added to a marginal increase in our debt position at the end of December 
'23. And given our belief that Q4 will be a high throughput quarter, we should be seeing a further 
improvement in our cash flows and shrinking net debt. Everyth ing else remaining the same, we 
are working towards reaching a zero net debt position by the end of March '25.  
 Going forward, we keep seeing an improvement in costs. As per current data, imported coal and 
pet coke do not seem to be spiking up, albeit the ocean freight flare up due to the war issues. We 
achieved a fuel cost of 2.048 per k -cal this quarter against 2.184 per k -cal last quarter. Blended 
cost of fuel consumed net of moisture was -- in dollar terms was $150. We use very limited 
domestic fuel, which is around 6% of our total fuel consumption, and maximum energy is from 
imported coal and pet coke. We expect to see a further r eduction in our fuel cost in the 
foreseeable future.  
 With 455 megawatt of renewable energy and 264 megawatts of WHRS, we are now at about 
24% of non -fossil fuel -based power, and work is in progress to nearly double this percentage by 
the end of FY'25. To give you some more numbers, we today, in all, have 44 kilns in operation, 
out of which 29 kilns have already been covered by WHRS. Work is further in progress on five 
more kilns. The ongoing expansions by the -- which is at the end of completion of Phase 3  by 
fiscal '27, we will have in all 48 kilns, and 41 kilns will be covered with WHRS. All future 
expansions, current and further, will always be with WHRS and zero thermal power. That is our 
commitment to sustainability.  
 I have covered briefly, touched briefly upon costs, demand and our expansion plans. Last but 
not the least, I must communicate about the recent acquisition that we have announced of -- 
cement assets of Kesoram Industries . We have already filed the scheme with the stock 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 4 of 19 
 
exchanges. CCI application should be filed shortly, perhaps by the end of this month. And after 
that, there will be an NCLT process. two NCLTs will be involved, which is namely Mumbai for 
us and Kolkata for Kesoram. The effective date of merger has been kept at 1st April '24. And as 
and when the merger gets completed, the numbers will be consolidated with retrospective effect 
once all regulatory approvals are in place.  
 That's all I had to share with you today from my side, and look forward to questions from you 
and any more inputs that you may have. Thank you, and over to you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The first question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  Good evening. Thanks for the opportunity.  The first question is on other expenses. So like 
doesn't Q2 has higher other expenses which we saw and Q3 simply witnesses a drop at this time. 
That drop is not visible. First thing I wanted to highlight was -- I wanted to check, was there any 
one-off in other  expenses?  
Atul Daga:  So it's not a one -off, but when we saw the slowdown -- I should say slow down, or lukewarm 
response in the markets during October, November, we did some pre-emptive  or early 
preponement of some maintenance costs, which would have become part of the overall cost 
during this quarter.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. So recently, this campaign has also been launched with Shahrukh Khan, of course. 
Congratulations on that , but that is already in the P&L  or Q3 ? Or will that come ? 
Atul Daga:  Sorry, who is Shahrukh Khan? Yes. Obviously, we will book their expenses. We don't keep 
anything for a later date.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay, okay. And just lastly, I see the slide on the capacity commissioning schedule. Like what 
will be the clinker capacity addition in Phase 3 ? And where will you go on total clinker capacity 
at the end Phase 3 ? 
Atul Daga:  I think I had already mentioned last time, 10 million to 12 million tons, but not getting into 
details on clinker capacity, but 10 million to 12 million tons. So we will always be clinker 
backed , that is most important aspect. Just one second, Jhanwar ji wants to speak .  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Yes. See, the first of all, Atul has already just said that our all capacities are always clinker  
backed . Actually, we never put the supply grinding facility and not having the clinker on the 
back side.  
Atul Daga:  Okay. Sure. I'll come back and thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. T he next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securities.  Please 
go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Congrats on a good set of numbers. Sir, two questions. First, I'll take on prices. So you said by 
the end of December, prices has turned fairly weak. So this exit of the current...  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 5 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  It's not weak, I wouldn't say weak. But the gains which were there in the quarter were largely 
surrendered.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Fair. So can we say that the cost price like in January is at least, let's say, 2% or some number, 
so it's lower than Q3?  
Atul Daga:  Lower than Q3, yes, prices will be currently lower than Q3.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Marginally.  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Navin Sahadeo:  Okay. marginally. Fair. And sir, my second question was on your recently incorporated company 
in Northeast and a very peculiar name to it. So I'm just trying to understand, it seems like 
something has already firmed up and very soon, we could see either a greenfield expansion or 
some venture in that state. If you can throw some light on this ? 
Atul Daga:  So I will throw some light when I have the torch with me. So sorry, not to -- I don't know why I 
started joking on the call. But we will come back, Navin, We are making progress on our 
expansion in the Northeast. It has been long overdue. As per the legal requirements, we need a 
separate entity with local partnerships, local directors, etcetera. So that has been structured. We 
will come back with details as and when we are ready.  
Navin Sahadeo:  I mean my only question was, given the peculiarity of the name, I could sense that it could be a 
greenfield venture because there, you don't have to really go into an auction of a mine as such. 
If you have land already in place, you can start.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, absolutely. Absolutely .  
Navin Sahadeo:  Great. Thank you. So much.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec.  Please go ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, a couple of questions. First, sir, you used the word, "we have taken opportunistic bets on 
fuel." Sir, can you please provide some more color over here? You did indicate on a rupee per 
k-cal basis for the quarter. If you have taken some nice bets, does it mean it is lower than the 
prevailing spot prices? How should we look at it?  
Atul Daga:  So Ritesh, let's keep it for the next quarter. Why should I spill the beans right now? I have also 
mentioned that you will keep seeing our cost curve sliding down continuously. We will reveal 
the numbers as and when -- at the end of the next quarter.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. If I put the question the other way around, would we have taken...  
Atul Daga:  I can't turn either way around.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 6 of 19 
 
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. Right. So probably I'll try to move to the next question then, sir, you did indicate that the 
incremental clinker capacity you had earlier indicated at 10 million to 12 million tons. This 
corresponds to Phase 2  and Phase 3  together?  
Atul Daga:  This was about Phase 3 . 
Ritesh Shah:  Phase 3 . And specific corresponding to Phase 2 ? 
K.C. Jhanwar:  14 million.  
Atul Daga:  14 million tons.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. And the incremental announcements which we have detailed, do we -- are we incentive -
backed on most of the states? Because I see a few states where...  
Atul Daga:  I'll tell you which places have incentives. So you have Rajasthan, Rajasthan has incentives. 
Andhra doesn't have. Bihar has. Yes. UP also will have it.  
Ritesh Shah:  UP has. Tamil Nadu doesn't have?  
Atul Daga:  Punjab is in Phase 2 . So Punjab also -- In Phase 3 , you would have Rajasthan, UP, Bihar, yes. 
These states will have incentives.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. So AP doesn't have? I presume Tamil Nadu also would not have, right?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Management : Tamil Nadu is very small.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. And sir, when we give a IRR number of 15%, what is the...  
Atul Daga:  We don't take incentives into account.  
Ritesh Shah:  You don't take incentives into account, okay. That's useful. Okay. And sir, lastly, if you want to 
just touch upon probably the rationale behind Kesoram, and given we have already announced 
Phase 2  and three , would there be a motivation to look at further inorganic assets given we have 
a very strong pipeline already in place?  
Atul Daga:  So, Ritesh, inorganic is always opportunistic and each transaction has to be examined on its 
fitment with UltraTech given the fact that we are pretty densely present in the country. So each 
transaction has to be examined on its own merits. Both -- so funda mentally, I have maintained 
that we are looking for profitable growth opportunity. So it has to give us growth as well as has 
to be remunerative.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  So at the end of the day, it has to be value -accretive  actually . Otherwise, there may be a number 
of opportunities. If it doesn't add value, I don't think it makes sense just to add capacity.  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 7 of 19 
 
Ritesh Shah:  And sir, my question was will there be anything specific that will make us move or motivate us 
to look at it? So something in Southern India, which is rich in limestone, would it be of interest?  
Atul Daga:  It's not about Southern India. Let me comment about whole of the entire country. So if it's a 
profitable growth opportunity, that's point number one. You seem to touch upon limestone. 
Obviously, it has to be limestone -backed.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. Sure. And sir, Kesoram, basically, the motivation to go for Kesoram?  
Atul Daga:  It has good limestone. We can certainly add value to ourselves, to our customers. We can service 
our customers in a much better way. Markets are very attractive.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  And also the good brand, the markets where they are present.  
Moderator:  Thank you. T he next question is from the line of Rashi Chopra  from Citi  Group.  
Rashi Chopra : Just on utilization, your utilization was 77% in this quarter. So what are you expecting in the 
fourth quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Fourth quarter, historically, if you see, I would expect this quarter also to repeat. However, 
election date -- depends on election date as and when the election dates are announced and the 
code of conduct sets in. It's very, very confusing to put a number  -- to put a finger to a number. 
As I already mentioned, mid -December onwards, we started seeing demand pick up, and the 
signs are very good. Still, if I have to put a number, we will definitely cross 80%, 85% for sure.  
Rashi Chopra : Okay. And in your opinion, like for the full year, what should the industry demand growth be 
for cement?  
Atul Daga:  We were looking at close to double digits. So 8%, 9% for is a possibility.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Yes. Anything between 8% to 9%.  
Rashi Chopra : Just some bookkeeping. On your trade volumes and blended cement for the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Trade was 64%.  
Management : Blended, around 68%. 
Rashi Chopra : And when you're doing a blended coal site, what was the pet coke price? Like last quarter, you 
would mention the pet coke was $138. This quarter?  
Management : $126.  
Rashi Chopra : So this should continue to go down?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. That's what the trend looks like.  
Rashi Chopra : Okay. Sorry, $126 you said, right?  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 8 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  $126.  
Rashi Chopra : Okay. And lastly, on the waste heat recovery, your capacity is 264 megawatts right now. 
Anything more getting added this year?  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Yes, about 26 megawatt.  
Atul Daga:  Some more will come in. One or two more lines will come in.  
Rashi Chopra : Sir, what's the total megawatt capacity expected by '24, '25 on waste heat recovery?  
Atul Daga:  About 16 to 20 megawatt additional will get commissioned by the end of March '24.  
Rashi Chopra : Okay. And then beyond that in FY'26? 
Atul Daga:  '25 also, we'll have. So we have 5 existing lines under implementation, out of which you will 
see 16 to 20 megawatts getting commissioned by March. So three  lines would have 
commissioning in the next fiscal year also.  
Rashi Chopra : Okay. Sir, just on capex. Sir, just one last thing. I don't really want to discuss the EBITDA per 
ton for the next quarter. But generally speaking, directionally, prices are basically corrected. I 
know costs have come down or will come down as well. But I mean, this probably remains like 
a steady state number, what is reported in the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. I assume so. I think I'm confident that it's a steady state number.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Indrajit, an individual investor.  Please go ahead.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sorry, Indrajit Agarwal from CLSA. Yes, after the capex, so INR18,000 crores in the two years, 
how much would be remaining for Phase 3 , till Phase 3 ? 
Atul Daga:  We had total cost of INR13,000 crores, INR12,000 crores, so INR25,000 crores. INR25,000 
crores, out of which INR18,000 crores is getting completed. So the balance is there INR6,000 
crores -- INR37,000 crores.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  And given that not all the capacity -- about 2 million tons of capacity at Kesoram is not clinker -
backed, so could we look to realign some of our like organic expansion to support that? Or how 
do we...  
Atul Daga:  Yes, we are looking at it. I think in the next -- we have plenty of time. So once we are -- get CCI 
approval, we'll work more closely with them to understand their plans and how we can realign 
our capacities.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sure. And sir, last question, on this post -Kesoram, we will be at around 190 -odd million ton 
capacity, right?  
Atul Daga:  Very close to that number in India.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 9 of 19 
 
Indrajit Agarwal:  And our target is 200 million by '28. So do we have enough organic opportunities for getting to 
that additional 10 million tons? Or we'll have to...  
Atul Daga:  Organic, most certainly, most certainly.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Okay. All right. And all those organic, we are still confident it is truly lower than, like, say, $90 
to $100 per ton, right?  
Atul Daga:  Absolutely. No doubt about that.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie.  Please go ahead.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, on -- you based your numbers on kilns with WHRS. And while that you said that currently, 
we have  44 kilns and by '27 we will have 48 kilns. So are we adding this 25 million tons between 
Phase one and Phase 2  just across four new lines? I was not clear about that.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, there are four lines -- four greenfield lines getting added.  
Ashish Jain:  Of 24 million tons of clinker ? Okay. 
Moderator:  `Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Prateek from Jefferies.  Please go ahead.  
Prateek:  My first question is on last quarter's demand growth, you said it's around 3%, 4%. Would you 
have like region -wise distribution of how this growth was?  
Atul Daga:  Very difficult at the moment. We will wait to see numbers from regional players, then it will be 
better to comment on that.  
Prateek:  And your utilization of 77%, how would that be region -wise?  
Atul Daga:  More or less evenly spread, the highest being 80%, 85% and the lowest being 74%, 73%.  
Prateek:  Okay. So South the utilizations is half -- I believe the South number would be lower number of 
on the range. So South utilization for yourself and for the industry has like sustainably moved 
up? Or is it like we are operating at significantly high?  
Atul Daga:  So we are -- so when we are growing at a pace higher than the industry, our capacity utilizations 
will also be higher than the industry. That is one. South market has been consolidating and 
improving continuously. Gone are the days when Southern markets us ed to operate sub -50%. 
So you are seeing South markets also going up above 70%, for sure.  
Prateek:  Okay. And over the next six months, as you concur, like volume growth may like sort of get 
impacted. How do you see the pricing during this period?  
Atul Daga:  The pricing is, Prateek, determined by demand, good demand across the country and as seen in 
the past also, when all India -- all India capacity utilization crosses 85%, prices become very 
strong. So it's a play of demand. If there's good demand, prices te nd to improve.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 10 of 19 
 
Prateek:  Right. But versus last quarter, when we sort of seen the start of the quarter, we had 5% higher 
prices all of that roll back. We are sort of having a similar view on pricing we had that time? 
Or... 
Atul Daga:  My sense is if capacity utilizations in January, March, which has been -- which has precedent, 
if you go last two, three  years, capacity utilizations have been strong, the prices could improve. 
However, we are heading into election periods. So there might be -- how demand pans out, it 
remains to be seen.  
Prateek:  Sure. And lastly, this INR25,000 crores of capex, you said INR9,000 crores, INR9,000 crores 
and maybe INR7,000 crores for three  years. Is this maintenance capex also included in this?  
Atul Daga:  All in.  
Prateek:  Okay. So maintenance included, we have INR25,000 crores spend?  
Atul Daga:  Sorry, sorry. Phase 2 , Phase 3 , yes. So maybe INR1,000 crores or INR2,000 crores on 
maintenance capex, give or take. And the WHRS also, which is under implementation. But all 
put together, capex, which I'm seeing this year, we have already crossed about INR6,500 crores 
for the nine months. So we will very unit as INR9,000 crores on that, which includes both our 
growth capex as well as routine capex or maintenance capex. This is a trend which we see at 
least next year, for sure.  
Prateek:  Sure. So INR9,000 crores, INR9,000 and next year -- FY'26, we'll have like INR6,000 crores, 
INR7,000 crores plus?  
Atul Daga:  It will be higher only, not INR7,000 crores, because there will be maintenance capex also.  
Prateek:  And in between, there will be like acquisition EV of around INR7,500 crores of...  
Atul Daga:  Yes. Yes, that is coming in. That is coming in. So in my commentary, when I mentioned FY'25 
net cash on the balance sheet, I am not taking into account this acquisition, which will bring in 
a debt of 18 -- INR2,000 crores.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Devesh Agarwal from IIFL Securities.  Please 
go ahead.  
Devesh Agarwal:  Sir, firstly, in terms of cost, you did mention that the cost will continue to slide. But based on 
our inventories, can you give some sense what would be the decline we can expect in Q 4? 
Atul Daga:  We are at $150, no? this quarter. So we are at $150 of consumption this quarter. I would expect 
5%, 7% -- 7%, 8% reduction over the next 6 months for sure, it could be higher also.  
Devesh Agarwal:  Okay. And secondly, sir, based on our Kesoram acquisition, you do have some capacity addition 
plans in waste heat in Southern India. Can there be any rethink or those remain intact?  
Atul Daga:  So I think somebody had asked about this. In the next six months, we will come back in case 
there is any change in our existing expansion plans.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 11 of 19 
 
Devesh Agarwal:  Okay. And sir, in our RMC business, what would be the margin for the quarter?  
Atul Daga:  In what, RMC business?  
Devesh Agarwal:  Yes, sir.  
Atul Daga:  RMC business generally delivers 3% higher...  
Management:  4%. 
Atul Daga:  4%, sorry. 4% margin over and above cement.  
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Satyadeep Jain from Ambit Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Satyadeep Jain:  Just a couple of questions. One, follow -up to Navin's question. On the foray in Northeast, I just 
want a clarification. You already have some limestone assets there in Northeast?  
Atul Daga:  Identified, yes.  
Satyadeep Jain:  But not existing assets. Secondly, on Nawalgarh in the Phase 3 , we don't see Nawalgarh. So is 
there some land acquisition....  
Atul Daga:  No, no. There's -- that will come in Phase four. Land acquisition is half of it. Because right now, 
we are doing Kotputli expansion in Rajasthan, which is part of our Phase 2 , which will get 
commissioned. And then we will take up further expansion in Rajasthan in Phase four, if I can 
call it that way.  
Satyadeep Jain:  So land acquisition is still going on there?  
Atul Daga:  Sorry. And Nathdwara expansion, my colleague corrected me, Nathdwara expansion is also 
happening right now.  
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Rajesh Kumar Ravi from HDFC Securities.  
Please go ahead.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Am I audible?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, please.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Sir, could you share the breakup of the pending 2.6 million ton debottlenecking which was due 
in second half? And also the slag grinding units, which are expected next year?  
Atul Daga:  So slag grinding units, one is in South, one in West Bengal and third one?  
Management:  Two in Bengal.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 12 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  Two in Bengal and one in South. And as far as debottlenecking, I think I have corrected the 
numbers in this presentation as compared to earlier. So once we are through, we will come back 
with the details on debottlenecking.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay, okay. The debottlenecking there are changes and this Burnpur is already an amalgamated 
end of Q3?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. Burnpur, we had acquired the assets and not the company.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  So this has already done, okay.  
Atul Daga:  It's already in our balance sheet.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  And also, can you share the Phase 3 , you mentioned some 10 million, 12 million ton of clinker 
additions?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Across which -- what would be the re gion where clinker additions or kilns?  
Atul Daga:  That's happening in the East, North and South.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  And what will be the breakup? Because South, we see that you are adding one last, brining six 
million tons in Andhra and then brownfield 3.7 million tons, which is in, again APCW . So almost 
1 million ton addition?  
Atul Daga:  Rajesh, let's focus on cement capacity instead of getting into clinker details.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay. And total, you said, is how much, sir?  
Atul Daga:  Total of what?  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Total clinker across these three  regions would be how much?  
Atul Daga:  Give or take, 12 million tons. 
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  12 million tons, okay. And sir, lastly, Q3 volume numbers for various reasons have been 
impacted. But in Q4, would you -- is it feasible to see a 10% plus growth. Do you have that 
capacity in place? Is that a reasonable number you're looking at, 10% plus growth in Q4?  
Atul Daga:  Right now given the weather conditions in North, so North is still not doing full steam. 
Otherwise, all the other regions are performing well. We should see a good improvement in our 
Q4 numbers. I don't want to comment on a number which is unnecessarily gi ving directional 
performance for Q4.  
Rajesh Kumar Ravi:  Okay. Sir, just sir, if you work out , even if  sequentially, you're able to deliver 25% volume 
growth year -on-year, it would still look at some 7% to 8% growth. So the growth base effect 
will also come in play is what I was looking at.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 13 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  As I mentioned, Rajesh, I don't want to preclude or reach a conclusion on Q4 in this call. We are 
focusing on Q3 performance.  
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Shravan Shah from Dolat Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Shravan Shah:  Sir, one data point, what's the premium, sir, for this quarter?  
Management:  23%.  
Shravan Shah:  23%. And second, sir, definitely, as you mentioned that in terms of the demand for fourth quarter, 
we are looking at it to improve. But overall, if you look at for FY'25 also, will there be some 
slowdown in the first half and net -net for the full year, will it be fair to say the max we can see 
a 6%, 6.5% kind of demand growth at industry level in FY'25? 
Atul Daga:  Maybe, I think so. It is a possibility.  
Shravan Shah:  But our growth will definitely will be much better than the industry growth.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, yes. We will have higher growth definitely.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And on the profitability front, sir, if you can repeat what you mentioned, I was not clear. 
Did you mention that the profitability still have a scope to improve given the cost curve is still 
going to be on the declining side? Or will it be -- going f orward in FY'25, will it be more from 
the pricing perspective, we can see the profitability to improve?  
Atul Daga:  I didn't comment anything on future profitability. What I said was you could see improvement 
or reduction in cost of fuel further. It all depends on how volumes play, how other levers of the 
P&L play out.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Patanjali Srinivasan from Sundaram Mutual Fund.  
Patanjali Srinivasan:  Sir, am I audible?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, please.  
Patanjali Srinivasan:  Yes, sir. So firstly, congratulations on a good set of numbers. I wanted to know what a gray 
cement EBITDA per ton  would be?  
Atul Daga:  Gray cement EBITDA per ton, we are at INR1,200 per ton . Well, INR1,208 depending upon 
operating EBITDA, how you calculate operating EBITDA, it would be around INR1,208 per 
ton. 
Patanjali Srinivasan:  No, sir. So our India business, when we declare numbers and it includes our white cement, RMC 
also. So I'm just trying to understand, if gray cement EBITDA would be slightly lower. But 
because of RMC, it will be a blended number of INR1,208. Is my understanding correct?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. RMC is obviously part of our gray cement business.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 14 of 19 
 
Patanjali Srinivasan:  Okay. And from a kcal perspective, what would be our cost -- fuel cost for the quarter, sir?  
Atul Daga:  From what perspective?  
Patanjali Srinivasan:  K-cal. 
Atul Daga:  I already gave it, I think 2.04.  
Patanjali Srinivasan:  Okay. And where do we see it going in the coming quarters?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, you should have been on the call earlier. I expect....  
Patanjali Srinivasan:  No, no, I was there. Sorry. Directionally. I just wanted to know how much will it be?.  
Atul Daga:  Directionally it will be reducing. Again, I also mentioned 6% to 8% reduction is a possibility. It 
could be more, it could be less. I don't have a control on that.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie.  
Ashish G. Jain:  Sir, my first question was on expansion. Like when we acquired Nathdwara, one of the 
arguments was that we can easily double the capacity. But even in Phase 3 , there's only 1.2 
million tons coming in Nathdwara and we have hardly added after the acquisition. So what -- 
and from profitability point of view also, I think in the past, we have highlighted that Nathdwara 
is fairly profitable. So why are we going so slow on Nathdwara expansion?  
Management:  So Nathdwara actually what you are talking, 1.2 million is the cement actually. But the clinker 
is 3.3 million tons. Obviously, the grinding has to take place, not entirely at the sub -site, but in 
the market.  
Ashish G. Jain:  Right, right. So clinker  wise, you're adding Nathdwara ? Got it. And sir, secondly, in terms of 
Phase 1, is it possible to quantify the potential Kesoram offers given you said that one of ...  
Atul Daga:  I missed your question. Repeat, please?  
Ashish G. Jain:  Sir, I'm saying Kesoram. Is it possible to quantify the potential Kesoram has in terms of capacity 
additions given that was one of the reasons you said for the acquisition?  
Atul Daga:  So whatever we studied their existing location in Karnataka, that definitely has limestone and 
land available to expand.  
Ashish G. Jain:  Okay. Sir, my last question, like this quarter, if I see nearly 2/3 of your renewable power is 
coming from wasted recoveries. Out of the 24% 16% is wasted recovery. In 2027, the 60% target 
that we have, are we seeing the dependence on solar or wind going u p or the mix will be 
maintained?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, no, no, it will go up.  
Ashish G. Jain:  So what will be the mix then ballpark if you have any -- I'm sure we will have a long -term plan.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 15 of 19 
 
Management : So solar, we are around 34% out of 60% and 26% would be WHRS.  
Ashish G. Jain:  Sorry, out of -- okay, okay. 34%.  
Atul Daga:  34% would be renewable energy.  
Ashish G. Jain:  No, sorry, sir, I thought it's 60% target by 2025, right?  
Management : Total. That is green energy, which includes WHRS also. 85% by 2030, which will be largely 
delivered by renewable energy.  
Moderator:  The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, two questions. Sir, first is we have your long -term carbon intensity target of 62%. This 
includes Scope one reduction of 27% from the baseline and 69% on Scope two. Sir, is there a 
road map which is there to reduce carbon intensity? I would presume clinker factor would be 
one of the variables. So when we're looking at Phase 2  and Phase 3 , are we looking at this 
particular variable to shift significantly? That's the first question.  
Atul Daga:  So to answer, yes, clinker factor will be the largest driver for reducing the CO2 emissions. We 
have a concrete plan in place to reduce clinker factor. New products which are getting added, 
variants which getting added which helps improve the clinker conve rsion factor.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, would it be possible to guide any particular clinker factor numbers, say, by FY'26, '27 or say 
'28, something in interim before 2032?  
Atul Daga:  No, I would not want to reveal that.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. And sir, as you indicate, we will focus on clinker factors, then how should we understand 
the demand -supply dynamics for fly ash and slag? If you could provide some color over here 
and specifically on the cost inflation for both this variables.  
Atul Daga:  My sense says that the country will not have any shortage on account of fly and slag availability. 
Cement industry will not suffer because of that.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. But from a cost inflation standpoint?  
Atul Daga:  On these commodities?  
Ritesh Shah:  Yes, sir, fly ash and slag.  
Atul Daga:  It's a matter of demand and supply. For example, fly ash can vary from zero cost to INR500 per 
ton plus freight. So it purely is on demand and supply.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sure. And sir, you said new products getting added. Are we referring to, I don't know, LC3 or 
something else? Also I would like to have your thoughts given BIS has come up with the norms 
over here. So is it a variable that we will look at going forward?  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 16 of 19 
 
K.C. Jhanwar:  Yes. The LC3 is still not -- I would say, the commercialize some pilot scale production has 
started in the Western world, at least in India, nothing has happened. But yes, it is very much on 
the radar and we are working on it.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. So we have the product credit. It is just that we have not commercialized. Should we read 
it that way?  
K.C. Jhanwar:  It's not question of product because the product is not so important to produce. But I think the 
overall, that technology and the scale actually. Because if somebody can produce in, say, 1,000 
TPT plant, but it should be scalable to a higher level. And at the same time, the raw material 
availability is also to be insured, actually at least for 30, 40 years.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sure. And sir, second -- last question, sir. Can you give some color around -- it's good to see 
bulk cement terminals being added. If you could provide some color on why, the rationale behind 
the locations where we are. And after Phase 2, Phase 3 expansion , any broader thoughts on 
distribution? So we -- I see a lot of jetties on the western coast line, but we have hardly anything 
on the eastern coast line. So how should we understand that and the location of the bulk cement 
terminals. Anything on the distribution?  
Atul Daga:  They are clearly determined by the market and -- the mild market and the kind of demand that 
exists in those markets. And for East Coast, Jhanwar Ji, do you want to say anything?  
K.C. Jhanwar:  The East Coast, because the again, the availability  of the right kind of ports, et cetera, is generally 
hampering unlike the way the terminals are there in Southern India. And ultimately, it's a very 
composite subject. So there you have your integrated facility of cement and what are the markets 
which can be conveniently sold actually to  those markets. So it's a question of taking integrated 
holistic approach of putting up either bulk terminal or grinding unit.  
Ritesh Shah:  Right. But again, sir, we don't see much of bulk cement terminals on the eastern coast line. So 
what we have is pretty few actually.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Because in East, it is not there because everything needs to be mo ved by rail only, and the rail -
- availability of rail itself is a major challenge in Eastern India as of now. So there is no -- like 
the sea movement which is happening from Gujarat to the southern side. It's purely the land 
movement because most of the ceme nt is coming to the Eastern India from Chhatisgarh  cluster, 
actually.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, just one bookkeeping question. Will it be possible -- would it be possible for you to give a 
split of OPC, PPC, PSC and composite probably for the last fiscal or probably for -- probably I 
can take it afterwards.  
Atul Daga:  What did you ask?  
Ritesh Shah:  Product mix, OPC, PPC, PSC and composites.  
Atul Daga:  Everything is blended is one and rest is OPC.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, I wanted to break that thing up. Probably I'll connect offline afterward.  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 17 of 19 
 
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from Kotak Securities.  
Please go ahead.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Just one question left. So Grasim will be launching a Paint  venture soon. And at the time of the 
foray, there was some sort of discussion that the white cement distribution network will be used 
of UltraTech. So any sort of compensation or benefit we will get? Any quantification since it's 
very close to launch now?  
Atul Daga:  We are working on a business sharing agreement. But as far as dealer network is concerned, it's 
a free market, there is no really a royalty that we will get from them for accessing those dealers 
because they are not our private domain. They are not our pro prietary concerns. There are 
individuals who anybody can approach to do business.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. So nothing meaningful from this?  
Atul Daga:  They are working independently. We have no role to play in their working model or whatever 
they are doing.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Understood, understood. And just if I may, a second question, I mean, if you see from an industry 
perspective, last 18 -odd months, there's been three  or four big M&A announcements by us and 
by a few peers. Over the next, say, one, two years, do you see there's further consolidation 
happening in the industry? And any sort of broad capacity you would like to guide us to? And 
what sort of consolidation is left in the industry if that would happen?  
Atul Daga:  I think consolidation will be a theme for a few more years. Things will keep happening as we 
progress along -- as the industry progresses along. That is a given. There are lots of names, and 
I'm sure you would know them yourselves. Seems roughly for me to repeat them on the call. The 
names are quite evident, who will be there on the radar.  
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Vishal Periwal from IDBI Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Vishal Periwal:  I think in the call, you briefly mentioned that cement prices in quarter four is slightly lower. 
Regio n-wise will it be possible to share how they are currently?  
Atul Daga:  I don't have that immediately.  
Vishal Periwal:  Okay. Fair enough. And second, I think you did passed upon the fuel cost will be lower in quarter 
four. So the 6% to 7% number that is for this particular quarter, quarter four on a quarter -quarter 
basis? Or it is six to eight  months.  
Atul Daga:  Two quarters safely.  
Vishal Periwal:  Okay, okay. Sure. So one can say that probably a split between quarter four and quarter one. 
Atul Daga:  Yes. 

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 18 of 19 
 
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securities.  Please 
go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sir, just one question. You've given the plans of Phase 3  coming in end capacity by FY'27. But 
is there any indication how much we could see in FY'26 as such? Or it will be like a lean year 
as such?  
Atul Daga:  No, no, no. So it will be spread and keep coming gradually. And as we progress on work, we 
will give a further granular schedules. Because right now, as I mentioned, technology orders 
have been placed, a couple of sites have started civil work. Major work will start, I'm assuming 
in '25. Once there is traction, we will give a schedule -- the way we have given the schedule for 
Phase 2 , we will give a schedule for Phase 3  as well.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Understood. We look forward to that. And just one more question. You said for the quarter, the 
blended cost is around $150. And within that pet  coke was more like $126. So at current spot 
rates, which are more like $115, $116 , the blended cost will be around $130, $131, which is 
roughly $20 savings from current levels?  
Atul Daga:  Everything gets converted. Everything is at $115 and you have the math.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  Yes. You are able to get at $150 shipments, actually. On shipment gets so far $115 but you all 
know well that the availability of pet  coke is very limited. And with every parcel, the price gets 
charged . 
Moderator:  Thank you . The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital.  Please go 
ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  So my question was on the carbon trading, which the Indian government is now looking to 
implement, the CCT scheme, that is. So could you help understand, like I believe the trading 
will start in FY'26 and FY'25 will be the year when the monitoring starts. So where do you think 
the benchmarks will be? And is there any potential cost that would come in because of that?  
Atul Daga:  No idea whatsoever. I think I'd love to learn when you learn. Let me know if you come to know 
about something.  
K.C. Jhanwar:  I think there is a lot of talk, but I think it is too early to get a real sense because there are multiple 
levers the government is yet to take in.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay, okay. Got it. And also on the blended fuel cost of $150 and petcoke $126, so the coal, 
which means implies about $170, $175, correct? I mean, if I'm not wrong in assuming a 50 -50 
split. And spot coal, as I can see, at least RB1 at all is now at close  to $100, $105. So the 
difference seems to be quite big in that respect, just if my calculations are correct.  
Management : So Amit, this is at the 7,500 CV.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Got it. So -- and -- but what is the split between pet coke and imported coal right now?  
Management : 50-50 in terms of...  

      Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
  January  19, 202 4 
 
Page 19 of 19 
 
Atul Daga:  44-46. 
Management : Yes, right. 44 -46. 
Amit Murarka:  Okay, okay. And lastly, Kesoram rebranding strategy, if you could highlight about -- like earlier, 
we have seen you shift quite fast into UltraTech brand. So will the strategy be similar here? Or 
will you go slower?  
Atul Daga:  We are not doing anything on Kesoram as yet. First focus is to get regulatory approvals. We'll 
start working on it after that. There's plenty of time.  
Moderator:  Thank you.  The next question is from the line of Aman Agrawal from Equirus Securities.  Please 
go ahead.  
Aman Agrawal:  One question from my end on the Eastern market. So many peers have been highlighting for 
quite some time about the slowness in demand in the Eastern market, especially in states like 
West Bengal and Bihar. What would be your take on that? What was the key reason why demand 
is still not panning out as buoyant as other regions?  
Atul Daga:  I think there have been -- as I mentioned in my commentary also, there have been fiscal 
challenges in the states of Bihar and West Bengal, because of which there has been a slowdown.  
Aman Agrawal:  Okay. Second, just lastly on industry growth that you would be expecting for 3Q. I'm sure you 
said that UltraTech has kind of grew better than the industry. Any number you would like to 
assign for the industry on...  
Atul Daga:  I mentioned, I think we expect the industry to be anywhere between 3% to 4%.  
Moderator:  Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the last question. On behalf of UltraTech Cement, 
that concludes this conference. Thank you all for joining us. You may now disconnect your lines.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you.  

 
Page 1 of 18 
   
 
“Ultra Tech Cement Limited  
Q4 FY '23 Earnings Conference  Call” 
April  28, 202 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. ATUL DAGA – EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF 
FINANCIAL OFFICER – ULTRA TECH CEMENT LIMITED  
 MR. K. C. JHANWAR – MANAGING DIRECTOR --
ULTRA TECH CEMENT LIMITED    


      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 2 of 18 
 
Moderator:  Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to the UltraTech Cement Limited Q4 FY '23 
Earnings Conference Call. We must remind you that the discussion on today's call may in clude 
certain forward -looking statements and must be, therefore, viewed in conjunction with the risks 
that the company faces. The company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify or 
revise any forward -looking statement on the basis of any subseq uent development, information 
or events or otherwise.  
As a reminder all participant lines will be in the listen -only mode and there will be an opportunity 
for you to ask questions after the presentation concludes. Should you need assistance during the 
conference call, please signal an operator by pressing star, then zero on your touchtone phone. 
Please note that this conference is being recorded.  
I now hand the conference over to Mr. Atul Daga, Executive Director and CFO of the company. 
Thank you, and over to you, sir.  
Atul Daga:  Thank you so much. Good evening, friends, and a very warm welcome to you on this earnings 
call for UltraTech for our quarter 4 FY '23 earnings. First and foremost, my apologies for the 
last-minute delay in the time for the call. But  I guess nobody has worked from home these days. 
So you will be attending this call from office and hopefully have a good evening after the call.  
I don't have too many comments today, and we'll be more than happy to rather engage with you 
and answer as man y questions as possible because performance speaks louder than words. And 
if there's any further clarification needed beyond our numbers, more than happy to answer. But 
a few quick highlights for this quarter. We sold -- this quarter and this year in parti cular, we sold 
100 million tons of grey cement from India in the last 12 months, which is a very unique feet. 
It's not just a number because it requires collaborative effort, synergies from all angles from all 
sections of the company, which encompasses alm ost 55 physical plant locations, then 235 RMC 
plant locations, 50 r akes being dispatched every day, more than 12,000 trucks being dispatched 
every day and more than 100,000 channel partners supporting this network, along with the 
employees who've toiled day in, day out to make this happen. And it has been a consistent 
performance. It's not that last -minute thought process or last month effort. Month -after-month, 
quarter -after-quarter, I think the company has done -- put in a fa bulous effort to deliver this 100 
million tons. I think we feel tremendously proud about it, and I thought of sharing my sentiments 
with you.  
Talking about our expansion, the Phase 1 of expansion is almost complete. The two plant, two 
or three smaller upgr adations and brownfield expansions, which are under trial and will get 
completed before the end of this quarter. Till April '23, we have commissioned 17.8 million tons 
of capacity. That's a number to reckon with. Phase 2 expansion of 22.6 million t ons is in progress. 
And as of now, we expect to reach our next milestone of 156 million tons by June '25 or before 
the close of '25 -'26. 
Talking about cement prices because last time everybody was inquiring about prices, we did not 
see too much movement in  prices in this quarter. And rightly so because this quarter is all about 

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 3 of 18 
 
volume, and you saw a huge amount of growth. We have delivered a 15% growth overall in this 
quarter. Fuel prices is the next big element to talk about. Fuel prices have been softenin g. Pet 
coke has been softening. Coal continues to be pretty strong, still pretty strong. In spite of 
whatever softening is happening, we are not yet celebrating because coal is still trending high 
and China, to my mind, has still not started importing. It all depends on how the global markets 
perform with China coming into operation.  
One more highlight is about our cash flows. We spent almost INR6,000 crores on capex this 
year. This kind of trend is expected to continue in the next two , three years. Most important and 
interesting aspect about our cash flow generation has been that we have had a positive cash flow 
after meeting all capex requirements, working capital requirements, dividend payments as well 
and yet we have deleveraged. Sm all bit, but that goes a long way to tell how powerful and how 
diligently we manage our cash flows.  
With regards to green energy, we have ended this year with 210 megawatts of WHRS and 345 
megawatts of renewable energy. We are on track on our ESG targets h aving reached 557 kgs 
per ton of cement as compared to when we started this year, we were at 582 kgs per ton of 
cement. Last point, which I would want to talk about is demand. Demand in the country seems 
to be very strong. We ourselves ended the year with 84% capacity utilization , the quarter at 95% 
and the month of March was a record -breaking 100% capacity utilization. I'm glad to tell you 
that the momentum has been maintained in the current financial year in the first month, which 
means that the opening ba tting has been good, and I hope the middle order and the tail will also 
perform equally well.  
With that, I would hand over to you for questions. Thank you so much.  
Moderator:  Thank you very much. The first question is from the line of Shravan Shah from Dolat Capital. 
Please go ahead.  
Shravan Shah:  Thank you, sir and congratulations on achieving the 100 million -plus volume for this year. Sir, 
a couple of data points and the questions to in terms of the data points, the lead distance for this 
quarter and K cal cost for this quarter? And how do we see this Kcal cost in the first quarter of 
this year and the second quarter.  
Atul Daga:  So lead distance, we have given in the presentation was about 413 kilometers and 2.5 Kcal is 
what we have reached in this quart er. Let me not go into the next quarter because the quarter is 
still going on.  
Shravan Shah:  But broadly, how do we see in terms of the further reduction in power and fuel cost?  
Atul Daga:   Yes, it should be softening.  
Shravan Shah:   And any number we want to put?  
Atul Daga:   We will not be able to give any numbers.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 4 of 18 
 
Shravan Shah:  On the sir, capacity front, so you have already mentioned that remaining 2.1 million tons will be 
commissioned in this quarter. So out of the next phase, 22. 6 million tons, how much will be 
added in FY '24? And how much in FY '25?  
Atul Daga:  Let's stick to the results for the quarter, please? And we will update as and when we make 
significant progress on our projects. We will update everybody.  
Shravan Shah:  Okay. And in terms of broadly, if I look at so this close to 14.4, we have already added, including 
this April. So in terms of the growth in volume for FY '24, is it fair to assume that 50%, even if 
I assume the utilization for these new capacities for this year, so 7 million tons, 8 million tons 
from here . So easily, we should be seeing a 12% -plus kind of a volume growth for this year.  
Kailash Jhanwar:  K. C. Jhanwar here. So first of all, I think the volume growth has linkages not only with  the 
plant, but it's an overall market dynamics, supply -demand kind of situation. So even if the plant 
is ready to produce, ready to fire, but it has to be an economical market to service. So it's a very 
volatile and very, I would say, beyond prediction th at what kind of volumes would be able to 
sold in the marketplace, either from existing or from the new capacity.  
Moderator:  We'll move on to the next question from the line of Pinakin Parekh from JPMorgan. Please go 
ahead.  
Pinakin Parekh:  Thank you very much for the call. So very strong operating performance, 15% year -on-year 
volume growth. So far, it seems that UltraTech has massively outperformed the peers in terms 
of volume growth. Given that UltraTech has added a lot of new capacity, is it fair t o say at this 
point of time that the growth differential of 400 basis points to 500 basis points over industry 
would continue in FY '24 for UltraTech in terms of sales volume?  
Atul Daga:   Yes, Pinakin, I believe so.  
Pinakin Parekh:  Okay. Thank you. Second question is, sir, you mentioned at the beginning of the call, INR6,000 
crores capex for the next three years broadly. So that INR18,000 crores capex from '24 to '26, is 
it only on existing capacity of Phase 2, or does that include some of the next phase of  expansion?  
Atul Daga:  I think two, three years got spoken in the casual flow. But our 22 million tons of capex is about 
INR12,800 crores, that's what I was referring to.  
Pinakin Parekh:   Okay. So at this point of time, FY '26, the third year of capex does  not include...  
Atul Daga:  But as we had announced by the time we complete this phase of growth, we would have 
announced during this year the next phase of growth, wherein we would have capex cash flows 
also. I don't have a number on that, so I don't want to comment on that.  
Pinakin Parekh:   Understood. Thank you very much sir.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from Kotak Securities. 
Please go ahead.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 5 of 18 
 
Sumangal Nevatia:  First question on the volume growth. Now the strong volume growth, if you could just share 
what would be the industry growth in your sense? And is it particular region where we gain 
market share, or is it across regions?  
Atul Daga:  Sumangal, we have operated at 95% capacity utilization on a base of 1 20-odd million tons, then 
we have grown , -- performed uniformly across the length and breadth of the country. So we've 
done uniformly well plus here or a minus here tolerance level of 3% plus -minus might be there.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Understood. So it's not j ust because of North region where because of some plant closures we 
would have had...  
Atul Daga:  No. So that's very small capacity, and I'm talking about 126 million tons of capacity and not 5 
million tons of capacity now.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Got it. Sir, se cond question, this Nathdwara merger, I mean is it possible to quantify what could 
be the benefit of merger in terms of accumulated losses and also in an operating losses...  
Atul Daga:  No. I think it is more of consolidation that we want to carry out and h ave one single set of book. 
We were waiting for a cleanup of all the non -core assets, which we have completed. There were 
a few past legal cases, which we have completed, and now it's a clean set of books ready to get 
merged with UltraTech.  
Sumangal Nevati a: Okay. So no meaningful I mean benefit on this on a merger point of view?  
Atul Daga:  No. Synergies we have already tapped into. It was for all in tend purposes, working as a single , 
between Nathdwara management team was common, brand common. Wherever syner gies had 
to be drawn out, we have drawn out. So it's more consolidation of numbers. In my presentation, 
when you see our India operations, I think the only change might happened at the terminology 
India operations might undergo with change. No, you still c ontinue calling it India operations, 
sorry. So there's no change. It's a legal consolidation that we are going through.  
Next question, please.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Pulkit Patni from Goldman Sachs. Please go 
ahead.  
Pulkit Patni:  Sir, thank you for taking my question. Sir, given the fact that our utilizations are very high 
already. And if my understanding is right, the bulk of your new capacity now is going to come 
in FY '25. FY '24, there's not much capacity addition. W hat would your view be on pricing in 
that backdrop for us and for the industry?  
Kailash Jhanwar:  Yes. Thank you, Pulkit. K. C. Jhanwar, this side actually. So, yes, our capacity in FY '24 
definitely would not be -- may not be that substantial. But let's se e because ultimately. But some 
other players are obviously adding the capacity. But Pulkit, as you know, in our industry, it is 
very difficult to predict the demand actually, say, I'll give a live example, 15 days back, we were 
hoping everyt hing going well. But one fine morning, you start some slowdown and kind of thing, 

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 6 of 18 
 
but that's not a permanent feature actually. So it all depends actually. But holistically, I would 
say it's likely to have the good demand, maybe anything between 7% to 8% kind of thing. So 
obviously, I don't think there will be strong pricing power would be in the hands actually. But it 
all depends actually how the capacity utilization set out actually.  
Pulkit Patni:   Sure, sir. So cost is going to be our friend for the next six months is the way you look at it?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. Pulkit, costs will definitely be a friend, and I believe just adding further to what Jhanwar Ji 
mentioned, see, what is happening is whilst we are doing a capacity utilization of 90%, 95%, all 
India capacity utilization is still not rising to a meaningful level. All India, all industry capacity. 
And my firm belief is that and I've mentioned it on several occasions, when all India capacity 
utilization starts going around 85%, then you see a different  kind of performance level. So yes, 
there is still some time.  
Pulkit Patni:  Sure, sir. And any indication on costs in terms of spot fuel prices, how should we look at the 
next couple of quarters in terms of power and fuel cost?  
Atul Daga:  They are volatile  whilst they are in the downward trajectory. But suddenly, there could be a 
spike also as I was specifically mentioning about fuel costs, pet coke has been softening, pet 
coke has reached almost $150 or $160. Coal on a same calorific value basis, coa l still continues 
to trend around $170 to $180. The gas prices have softened globally. The atomic power 
generation has gone up in certain parts of Europe, which is easing the pressures on fuel prices 
also. But as and when China starts importing and -- they will open up. They are opening up 
already. March was a phenomenal performance in China. They started importing -- sucking out 
coal supplies from Australia, from New Zealand already, but we have not yet seen a big impact 
on the overall fuel prices. I will not start celebrating yet, as I mentioned earlier, on fuel prices. 
They are softening but they would make a reverse trend also.  
Pulkit Patni:  Sure. That's useful. You've been the most guarded in terms of any comment on fuel prices versus 
your competition. But that's it from my side.  
Atul Daga:   All right.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Indrajit Agarwal from CLSA. Please go ahead.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Hi, sir. Good evening. A couple of questions from my side. First, again, going back to coal and 
fuel cost. Have we been changing our strategy at all in the sense of sourcing? Have we changed 
our mix meaningfully? Or like coal, are we sourcing more from US rather than Australia right 
now or it broadly remains the same that it wa s maybe a couple of quarters back?  
Atul Daga:  Australia for us has never been the main source of coal. It becomes uneconomical being the 
distance and US has been always the main source of imported coal. Yes, we switch between pet 
coke and coal depending up on pricing. But spot prices cannot determine that at the moment we 
are able to cite some trends. We try to tilt the balance towards either of the fuel, whichever makes 

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 7 of 18 
 
economic sense. Last quarter, for that matter, we were 52% pet coke, and we can go up fu rther 
depending upon how the prices behave.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Now as we are seeing prices declining, are we looking to reduce our inventory of coal pet coke? 
Or we still want to be well prepared for any production update that we are like...  
Atul Daga:  No. Irrespective of prices, inventories have to be carried. We do a thumb rule of 40, 45 days, 45 
days of inventories can't take a risk or suddenly, if there is some mine shutdown or anything. 
Suddenly, if supplies are not available, then our operations will s uffer. So, this is a long distance, 
long lead item. So we can't compromise on inventory levels. That will be very speculative.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sure. And a couple of questions on the waste heat side. So we had a target of 318 megawatts by 
end of FY '24. A re we still on track for that? Can we...  
Atul Daga:   Yes, we'll exceed that, I think so. '24? We'll exceed that.  
Indrajit Agarwal:   This fiscal. So we will be like 34% green share that we are guided by next fiscal…  
Atul Daga:  Yes, that we are very confiden t. We would -- because see green share, the non -investment base 
is alternate fuel. We are continuously ramping up our alternate fuel, which ultimately forms part 
of my guidance on 34%. So it could -- we will definitely meet our targets, for sure.  
Indrajit Agarwal:  Sure. My last question is on the clinker conversion ratio. We are at about 1.41x. So not just in 
the near term, maybe a five, seven -year horizon, do you see this moving more towards 1.6x, 1.7x 
where the industry accepts more blended cement? Or you  think there will be a sharp distinction 
between the infrastructure projects, which will continue to have higher OPC? Are you seeing 
any change...  
Atul Daga:  There are two sides of the coin to this. One is with infrastructure continuously being a bellwethe r 
of demand, demand, the consumption of OPC will continue to remain high, which means the 
conversion ratios cannot improve dramatically. However, there is a lot of advocacy, which is 
happening around blended cement usage in infrastructure projects. It depe nds on how successful 
the industry is to circulate that message down. And we could see improvement in overall 
conversion norms. 1.6x, I can't do the math around 1.6x. This quarter ended 1.41x was average, 
but quarter ending was 1.42x. We have once in a whi le touch higher than 1.42x also. And in the 
near future, maybe 1.5x could happen.  
Indrajit Agarwal:   Sure. Thank you sir.  
Moderator:   Thank you. The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec. Please go ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  Hi, sir. Thanks for the opportunity. A couple of questions. Sir, first one is on the legal side. Sir, 
how should we read point 8 notes to accounts pertaining to the Dalla asset?  
Atul Daga:  The Dalla asset, it's under arbitration, let that process get completed, we'll then tak e over that 
asset.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 8 of 18 
 
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, can you specify how much is the cement and clinker over the asset which is under artificial?  
Atul Daga:   2.3-million -ton clinker only. No grinding capacity at that location.  
Ritesh Shah:   And sir, corresponding limestone?  
Atul Daga:   The limestone mines would be about 100 million tons over there.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. Perfect. Sir, you wouldn't like to comment anything on the course of actions incrementally 
or possibly how it landed in arbitration?  
Atul Daga:   It's good point, Ritesh. Next question, please.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, next question, any specific cost initiatives besides the green power and AFR that we are 
working on, eit her on lead or moving from road to rail or exploring more of coastline , DFC, I 
mean anything...  
Atul Daga:  I think it's -- this topic might take half an hour of discussion by itself, but there are lots of 
initiatives that the organization is taking whether  it's on digital ways of working, which is helping 
reduce our operation cost or optimizing my lead distance or optimizing my freight costs, there 
are lots of initiatives. I think the leading question would be you might ask me what is the target 
number? I d on't have a target number because these are continuous improvement programs. So 
we have improvement programs happening in our maintenance cost, in our power consumption. 
Some are investment -led, some are improvement in efficiency, mining operations for tha t matter. 
There are dedicated specific task force and actions being taken to improve the cost of mining. 
So you name the field, work is continuously on. There's never a status quo that we would reach.  
Ritesh Shah:  Correct. Sir, just last question. You indi cated we are positive on demand. You also indicated I 
think batting order, middle order and tail will follow and we are upbeat on volumes. So my 
question is, and you also indicated at the India level utilization level is still not at the desired 
level. Sir , what would be the probability for the cement prices to remain at the current level if 
the cost curve goes down and what you indicated utilization at the India level is not at the desired 
level?  
Atul Daga:   You would tell me, you are there in the field, what will happen?  
Ritesh Shah:   So pricing should go down logically, but I would like to have your thoughts, sir.  
Atul Daga:  No, I think there would not be too much pressure on prices. I don't believe so. We have seen in 
the heat of the January - March quarter. If volumes are so high, then prices should have corrected, 
prices did not correct. We have maintained our prices as we were in the last quarter. So nobody 
wants to just crash prices for volumes.  
Ritesh Shah:   Sir, adjusting for seasonality, tec hnically, it has to come off because volumes will dip.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 9 of 18 
 
Atul Daga:  July-September quarter is always a weak quarter, but my sense is, otherwise, prices should 
remain stable.  
Ritesh Shah:   Sure sir. More questions, sir. I’ll join back the queue. Thank you so much.  
Atul Daga:   Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital. Please go 
ahead.  
Amit Murarka:  Hi, thanks for opportunity. Just a couple of questions. Sir, firstly, on demand slide around the 
various  demand drivers that you present shows a relatively weak performance by the Infra and 
Commercial segment, whereas the housing segment is what is driving the demand. So with the 
healthy budget, which is seen for FY '24, like are you already seeing infra seg ment also picking 
up or still sluggish as of now?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. So one important aspect, and I've mentioned it in the comments also is when the harvest 
time happens, the normally labor availability goes down for the infra projects, and that's where 
new p rojects taking off also is slow. So it's about new projects not taking off at a point in time, 
which results in a mild slowdown. I think a sneeze should not be considered as a flu. So it's a 
very mild thing. But given the impetus on infrastructure that the  government has, given the fact 
that this is election year, I believe demand will continue to grow very strong.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay. Understood. And also on exports, like this quarter, you've shown a higher export volume 
and so has the Sri Lanka situation f ully normalized now, or how are we placed?  
Atul Daga:  Yes. I think it's almost normalized, and we have started getting back our volumes. At the peak 
of the problem time, we had almost INR250 crores outstanding from Lanka, everything, the last 
penny has bee n received, volumes have started picking up. The economies started picking up. 
So our exports are also going up.  
Amit Murarka:  And the subsidiary financials, in the presentation, you've disclosed other expenses have actually 
almost come down to zero in Lan ka. Is there any major change in the like operating structure, 
which you have made there?  
Atul Daga:   No. What is this, Ankit?  
Amit Murarka:  The other expenses line item, this is in slide 34 it shows that it was INR84 crores last year, it is 
INR6 crores this ye ar. 
Atul Daga:   No. I'll ask Ankit to get back to you on this, Amit.  
Amit Murarka:  Okay, sure. And just last question, like on the fuel cost, you mentioned $194 consumption cost 
right now. What we understand is on the spot level, the pet coke costs have dr opped to like 
around $140, $145 per ton. So like by when will these current spot prices start reflecting? 
Generally like it's 45 days that you take to consume the fuel...  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 10 of 18 
 
Atul Daga:   I would give about two months. Just one second, the clarification.  
Ankit Asawa : Amit, that other expenses include exchan ge loss  because last year in Lanka, there was a currency 
devaluation , which was very high.  
Amit Murarka:   Understood. Okay. That is all from my side. Thanks.  
Atul Daga:   Thanks.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next que stion is from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies. The line for the 
current participant has got disconnected. The next question is from the line of Rashi Chopra 
from Citigroup. Please go ahead.  
Rashi Chopra:  Thank you. At the last quarter, you had men tioned that fourth quarter the EBITDA per ton will 
cross INR1,000 and then more medium term, you are expecting INR1,000 to INR1,200. So 
obviously, you've delivered on the fourth quarter number. But what are the thoughts on the 
INR1,000 to INR1,200 medium t erm given the way costs have come up?  
Atul Daga;   I believe we deliver on what we commit.  
Rashi Chopra:   So I think my question is, is there upside to that?  
Atul Daga:   Upside to what?  
Rashi Chopra:   INR1,000 to INR1,200 medium term?  
Atul Daga:   Well, I wouldn't want to count it so soon. Let Q1 play out, we'll see then.  
Rashi Chopra:   Okay. Also, the green power in this quarter, was it 20%?  
Atul Daga:   Total green power. 25%. Which includes WHRS plus renewables . 
Rashi Chopra:   Right. And what was  the working capital release in the quarter?  
Atul Daga:   In the quarter, how much is the working capital release? INR2,300 crores.  
Rashi Chopra:   Okay. Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Navin Sahadeo from ICICI Securiti es. Please 
go ahead.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Thank you for the opportunity. Sir, two good questions. One, are there any efficiency measures 
or any other special initiatives the company is taking on other expenses front because on an 
absolute basis, even at, let's say, volumes of nearly 32 million ton, the total amount is actually 
less than what we saw even when the volumes were just 23 million ton. So I understand it is 
partly fixed, partly variable. So I'm just trying to understand, are there any initiatives  or any 
efficiency gains, which have been factored here?  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 11 of 18 
 
Atul Daga:  No. Navin, there's nothing extraordinary. I think I would say it's an operating leverage play. And 
if I'm trying to think, the biggest other expenses would be something like advertisements . Yes. 
So that, I really cannot predict or cannot have a standard flow depending upon events when 
campaigns are run. So that would be a bit of a yo -yo. You might see in this quarter, the other 
expenses are slightly higher because there will be a huge amoun t of ad spend, could be. Other 
than that, there's nothing abnormal, which comes to my mind.  
Navin Sahadeo:  Sure. And sir, just directionally, while, of course, previous participants did ask you about pricing 
and fuel cost. My just one question directionall y. April as a month in terms of realizations would 
be better versus the March quarter, or would be a tad lower? How would you look at it 
directionally?  
Atul Daga:   It's positive direction. It's not declining, so.  
Navin Sahadeo:   Understood. Great. That’s h elpful. Thank you so much.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Rahul Gupta from Morgan Stanley. Please go 
ahead.  
Rahul Gupta:  Thank you for taking my question. Daga sir, I have a couple of questions. Sir, if I do back of the 
envelop e math, it suggests that fuel cost would come down by around 15% over the next two 
quarters, of course, assuming everything remains same, is that a fair understanding?  
And secondly, given fuel costs have surprised positively on spot basis over the past few  months, 
is it fair to expect that the focus would be, again, on volumes and are the positives that one would 
get from fuel prices would be offset by the cement prices during the year?  
Atul Daga:   I lost your first question. What was the first question?  
Rahul Gupta:  Sorry, what I was alluding to was when I do my back of the envelope math, your fuel cost should 
decline by around 15% over the next couple of quarters. But of course, this is assuming 
everything remains same.  
Atul Daga:  Yes, I think everything remains the same, then the math would work. But spot prices are never 
on the spot, they are changing on a daily basis. If the trend is continuously down south, then yes, 
you will be proven right.  
Rahul Gupta:  Yes. And just to take this point for ward, does that mean we get more leeway to play on or focus 
on volumes or -- sorry for the work at the expense of cement prices during the year, given we 
have a...  
Atul Daga:  Rahul, ultimately, we play for EBITDA per ton and not for a single lever. And nob ody in the 
right sense and the right mind frame would want to lose on EBITDA per ton.  
Rahul Gupta:   Great. Make sense. Thank you so much.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 12 of 18 
 
Atul Daga:   Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Sumangal Nevatia from Kotak Securit ies. 
Please go ahead.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Yes. Thank you sir. I got disconnected. Sir, first question on the capital structure over the 
medium term. We've deleveraged quite impressively without compromising on growth. So now 
as we're approaching net cash, sh ould we expect a higher payout or we will look to accumulate 
cash on books over the next two, three years?  
Atul Daga:  One is, this year, our dividend payout is almost 22% of profit. It will keep on going up steadily 
as a percentage of profit in my view. Of  course, the Board will take a final call. But the reading 
that I have is it will keep on improving.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Sir, over the last several years, we've been quite active on M&A. I mean how is the 
landscape now? Are there meaningful assets stil l on the block or it's largely going to be organic 
going forward?  
Atul Daga:  See, we believe in India growth story, and we want to continue to participate in India growth 
story. So we will grow, whether organic or inorganic is a second thing. And inorganic  is always 
opportunistic. It also has to -- in my definition, it has to give us a profitable growth opportunity 
in that scenario, we will examine it. If it does not make sense, we'll drop it.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. And just one last thing on April prices is not very clear. I mean since the month is almost 
over, is it possible to share some regional sense on how the prices have moved versus March?  
Atul Daga:   I don't want to comment on month -to-month numbers.  
Sumangal Nevatia:  Okay. Got it. Thank you and al l the best.  
Atul Daga:   Thanks.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Prateek Kumar from Jefferies. Please go ahead.  
Prateek Kumar:  Yes. Hi, sorry, my call got disconnected. My question is on clinker capacity. So you were 
quoting like  84% utilization for cement for FY '23. What would be your clinker utilization for 
the year? And what is your clinker capacity post this first days of expansion?  
Atul Daga:   So clinker capacity utilization was about 91% Q4 FY '23.  
Prateek Kumar:   So what w ould be that for full year? You said 84% for full year for cement, right?  
Atul Daga:   Yes. So what are you asking?  
Ankit Asawa :  83%.  
Atul Daga:   For what?  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 13 of 18 
 
Ankit Asawa :  Full year.  
Atul Daga:   Cement is 84% full year. Clinker is 83% full year.  
Prateek Kumar:   And what could be our clinker capacity?  
Atul Daga:  Clinker capacity, do you have a number guys? Surprisingly, we don't have a clinker capacity 
number immediately. I'll give it to you separately.  
Prateek Kumar:  Okay. So second question is on  pricing. So last quarter, was there a material difference in 
regional pricing trend in various regions?  
Atul Daga:   No, it almost remained flat, a rupee here or a rupee there within regions.  
Prateek Kumar:   Okay. So there is no change in competitive inten sity in any region specifically...  
Atul Daga:   No. 
Prateek Kumar:  And lastly, on other expense. So other expense growth seems lower on an year -on-year basis 
versus volumes. That's largely related to -- I mean, as you comment on operating leverage 
benefit, but is there some expense which is missing this quarter?  
Atul Daga:   No, nothing is missing. Nothing has been stopped. It's purely operating leverage.  
Prateek Kumar:   Sure. Thank you. These all are my question.  
Moderator:   Thank you. The next question is f rom the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie. Please go ahead.  
Ashish Jain:  Hi, sir. Good evening. Sir, my first question is on this 25% green power that you said, can you 
break it up between how much is AFR and how much is WHRS?  
Atul Daga:   15% is WHRS and balance is renewable energy.  
Ashish Jain:  Okay. And sir, AFR, is it even cheaper on a calorific value basis or whichever ways you measure 
is more about attending the green target that we have?  
Atul Daga:   No. We take calorific value basis. We don't want to forcefully put it in.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, secondly, on WHRS, like you had this target of 324, which you said you might exceed. But 
once we go to  150 c apacity , what is the potential on WHRS we have because it should be 
increased substantially with the kind of clinker we are adding, is that right? Because the reason 
I'm s aying otherwise, your share on green could decline in case we don't match it with 
incremental WHRS. Just want to understand where we stand on that?  
Kailash Jhanwar;  Yes. Ashish, actually I would put this. And now all the new plants are done with WHRS actua lly. 
And as far as new plants are concerned on a -- about 55% power can get generated from WHRS 
for the new plants. So average obviously certain old plants where there is no possibility or layout 

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 14 of 18 
 
does not permit or there are other challenges. But new plant s can give up to 55% of value on 
power…  
Atul Daga:  Further to that, Ashish, we are not adding any thermal power capacity. So balance, we are 
depending on grid as India improves in terms of power supply and PLF grid supply is becoming 
a safer way of supplyi ng -- absorbing power in our units. So irrespective of organic capacity 
going up or WHRS maturing on our current capacity, future capacity will remain balanced with 
green power.  
Ashish Jain:  Sir, if I ask this a differently, so the 324 number, if my unders tanding was right, it was based on 
the 111-million -ton capacity basis, is that right? Or this included this, or is it based on 134 
million ton? I'm not clear about that?  
Ankit Asawa :  So on 130 million ton, it was around 303 megawatts.  
Ashish Jain:  Right. So once we go from 130 to 155 or 154, we should be adding roughly another 100 
megawatts, is that right?  
Ankit Asawa :  Around 60, 65 megawatts, which will take us to 360 megawatts, 370 megawatts.  
Ashish Jain:   Okay. Got it. Thank you so much.  
Manage ment:   Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Devesh Agarwal from IIFL Securities. Please 
go ahead.  
Devesh Agarwal:  Yes. Good evening, sir. Thank you for the opportunity. You did mention that probably pricing 
may not go up, but given your high utilization, do you think that the share of premium product 
in your overall mix can go up and that can support the pricing?  
Atul Daga:  Yes, it is already going up. We have crossed 20% in terms of premium products and which also 
directly indirectly help average realization.  
Devesh Agarwal;   Any target sir, for FY '24?  
Atul Daga:   Yes, I'll tell you at the end of '24.  
Devesh Agarwal:   And sir, on a net basis, how much more do we earn out of premium products?  
Atul Daga:  Incremental mar gin on premium product, we have multiple -- do we have an average number? 
Just one second.  
Atul Daga:  So my colleague tells me INR10 a bag, would be an average earnings. There are multiple 
products. So that clearly is INR200 per ton.  
Devesh Agarwal:   Understood. Okay. Thank you, sir.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 15 of 18 
 
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Keshav Lahoti from HDFC Securities. Please 
go ahead.  
Keshav Lahoti:  Hi, sir. Congrats on great set of numbers. I just want to und erstand one thing. If I look back your 
Kcal costing, you are industry leader on many operating fronts, but Kcal of Dalmia is picking 
about 2.06 in this quarter and you are at 2.5 Kcal. So will this difference narrow down in 
upcoming two, three qua rters with the proper  understanding?  
Atul Daga:  Some mysteries can never be solved. Having said that, our largest footprint is in all the 
infrastructure projects. You name a infrastructure project where UltraTech is not present. And 
that is where the wh ole tilt is because we are supplying OPC as compared to other players who 
are not supplying so much of OPC. Everything has a challenge.  
Keshav Lahoti:  Okay. Got it. As you again reiterated your stand at once the industry capacity utilization, which 
is 85%,  we get a pricing power, but somewhere that thing does not play out in quarter 4.  
Atul Daga:  So you see only three or four results have been published. You'll have to wait for other results 
to come out, then you'll know what the average capacity utilizatio n of the industry is. Clearly, 
we operating at a significantly higher base and higher capacity utilization. I believe we would 
have gained;  we would have made significant inroads in the market.  
Keshav Lahoti:  Yes. Like if you operated at, let's say, near 1 00% in March, obviously, I believe industry might 
be above 85% in March, but that pricing play is still missing. That's what I'm trying to 
understand.  
Atul Daga:   So but I don't think India is operating at 85% -plus as yet.  
Keshav Lahoti:  Okay. Got it. One last question from my side. You are talking about 34% green power. Can you 
give a ballpark number? How much is by WHRS and how much will be green power?  
Atul Daga:   26% was our target on WHRS and 9% or 10% was our target on renewable energy.  
Keshav Lahoti:   Okay. Thank you. That’s it from my side.  
Moderator:   Thank you. The next question is from the line of Ritesh Shah from Investec. Please go ahead.  
Ritesh Shah:  Hi, sir. Quick two -three questions. First is where are we on RAK. Post RAK, how has the mix 
shifted of Top 2 , volumes versus what we source from RAK and has our market strategy changed 
specific to White Cement and Wall Care Putty? So that's the first question. Second is on 
Construction Chemicals what was the...  
Atul Daga:  I will forget, let me just tak e one -by-one question. So you said, where are we on RAK. RAK is 
in Ras Al Khaimah and it's very much there. So we have -- sorry, that was a bad joke. But I think 
the operations are now coming under control. We have started rebranding the entire RAK output 
into Birla White. Birla White bags are already in place at RAK White. And they are shipping 
Birla White as a product from there. Prices for white cement have seen a consequent 

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 16 of 18 
 
improvement in the country. There is a consequent improvement in our market shar e as well in 
the white cement space. This was a strategic investment, which, to my mind, is playing right at 
the moment.  
Ritesh Shah:  Right. Sir, I think we were just at about 50%, and we had indicated we could increase the stake 
further.  So any timelines  on going to 80% or 100%? That is one. And you indicated on market 
shares, so is that possible for us to quantify something?  
Atul Daga:   Going to -- sorry, what?  
Ritesh Shah:   Sir, RAK stake , Sir, economic interest.  
Atul Daga:  Stake. So we are working on it. Hopefully, in this financial year, we'll be able to consolidate, 
make it our subsidiary.  
Ritesh Shah:  Okay. And sir, on market share, you indicated that market share has increased. Possible for us 
to quantify?  
Atul Daga:  No, I don't have that data. But the very fact that I'm importing that RAK White product as our 
product name is out of the market and it got replaced by Birla White, clearly, there is a market 
share gain.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sure. Sir, c onstruction chemicals, any headline numbers for the fiscal revenue and EBITDA and 
any target?  
Atul Daga:  The EBITDA is not measurable. We have clocked about INR550 crores of revenues in 
Construction Chemicals this year.  
Ritesh Shah:   Sure. And sir, we had plans on captive  manufacturing over here, any updates over there?  
Atul Daga:   So there is a lot of captive manufacturing happening in all our construction chemicals.  
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, you had indicated we'll put up more plants across our factories and the revenue run rate for 
the…  
Atul Daga:  That's what I meant by captive manufacturing, we have both models, a lot of places we are using 
because it doesn't require so much of space. We are using space available in our factory premises 
depending upon the cl osest to the market or doing contract manufacturing outside.  
Ritesh Shah:  Just a quick data point, sir. Same thing on RMC, any change in strategy. We have the numbers 
for the full year, but are we upping the number of accounts that we should look at...  
Atul Daga:  We are going full steam ahead on RMC. We have already reached 23 1 plants. March, we ended 
with 231 plants and further few more plants would have got added in April. We will continue to 
grow and hope to double t his number very soon. And 39 physical locations that our contract 
construction chemical manufacturing is happening.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 17 of 18 
 
Ritesh Shah:  Sir, just two quick ones. Bulk cement terminals and railway sidings, what's the number right 
now? And do we have any numbers ta rgeted for the next two years?  
Atul Daga:   What was the first one you asked?  
Ritesh Shah:   Bulk cement terminal and railway sidings?  
Atul Daga:   Bulk terminals is 7 and railway heads almost 300.  
Ritesh Shah:   Sir, targeted numbers for next year?  
Atul Daga:  I don't have a target number. And bulk terminals are as part of our 22.6 million ton, there are 
two more bulk terminals planned, one in UP and -- one in Karnataka and one in UP.  
Ritesh Shah:   Sure, sir. This is helpful. Thank you so much.  
Atul Daga:   Than k you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. The next question is from the line of Amit Murarka from Axis Capital. Please go 
ahead.  
Atul Daga:   Amit is not there. Let's take the last couple of questions, please.  
Moderator:  As there is no response, we'll move on to the nex t question from the line of Anupama Prakash 
Bhootra from Arihant Capital. Please go ahead.  
Anupama Bhootra:  Thank you for taking question. So I have a specific question on Eastern regions. So I wanted to 
understand your perspective as far as East India markets are concerned and the company's plans 
in Eastern region for coming years?  
Atul Daga:  We will continue to grow in the Eastern markets. Eastern markets were one of the most deep 
markets in terms of growth potential, highest density of populatio n, lowest level of development 
that still continues to plague that market. So there's a huge amount of opportunity that we see in 
the Eastern markets.  
Anupama Bhootra:  So like what kind of capacity expansions are -- is the company planning the coming years ? 
Atul Daga:  Out of the 22 million tons that we have announced, close to 5 million tons or 6 million ton is 
coming up in the Eastern markets. We are today present with almost 22 million tons of capacity 
in the East, which will go up by 5 million more tons in the next two years.  
Anupama Bhootra:  And how much like clinker backing for the team?  
Atul Daga:   We are always clinker backed.  
Anupama Bhootra:  Okay. Thank you so much. That’s it from my side.  

      Ultratech Cement Limited  
  April  28, 2023  
Page 18 of 18 
 
Atul Daga:   Thank you.  
Moderator:   Thank you. The next quest ion is from the line of Ashish Jain from Macquarie. Please go ahead.  
Ashish Jain:  Hi. Sir, in your presentation, in Slide 24, you have given breakup of capex under various heads. 
Can you give some color on what is included in ESG, other capex and strategic  investments?  
Atul Daga:  So strategic investment was RAK White, ESG, largely is WHRS and all the capexs, which are 
power saving  related, which help me reduce our AFR investments.  
Ashish Jain:   And others?  
Atul Daga:  Others will be balanced modernization, t here is a huge amount of stuff which would keep 
happening in our live operation. It could be some building also or some plant modernization, 
anything is possible. Various infrastructures will be there.  
Ashish Jain:   Okay. So WHRS is part of ESG and not in those capex?  
Atul Daga:   Yes, absolutely. Absolutely.  
Ashish Jain:   Got it. Thank you so much.  
Atul Daga:   Thank you.  
Moderator:  Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the last question for today. On behalf of UltraTech 
Cement, that concludes this confe rence. Thank you for joining us, and you may now disconnect 
your lines.  

